REFERENCES:

Michael Marmot, An unequal struggle, New Scientist May 2006, pp 22.

CONTINUANCE

If 5.5 to 9.5 years of life is shortened by mere being in a lower
class compared to a ruling class and it's satellite classes - where
did that life force go to? Is it wasted, or does the ruling class find
a psychosocial mechanism to drain the less fortunate's life force and
vampire on it?

Considering the huge interest in mobbing and harassment activities -
it seems to be so. Mental abuse drains the abused person's life force
and feeds the abuser - that's why the abuser comes back and back and
back ... That's why it never stops, it never ends.

Psychiatry is here helping abuser because it is hard to deal with him
- he is the ruling class after all, and the psychiatry serves it.
"Passive aggression is ascribed to the victim. The victim actually did
something to challenge abuser. It was born if nothing else, after all.
That must have made abusers very angry.

Humor aside, the victim is blamed because it responds in defense
mechanism not with equal force, but at all. The psychiatry never says
what is the mechanism victim should use instead, to avoid being
passive aggressive. Turn the other cheek? To save the soul? Wait a
minute, but the psychiatrists just said we do not have it, we are a
consequence of random events and natural selection and survival of the
fittest.

Psychiatry tells us those bullies are the fittest to survive.

Those "down" pay with 5.5 to 9.5 years of their lifespan.

The poisoning effect of the chemicals is here not included. The
numbers above were for the "mentally healthy" individuals in the
lowest class. But you don't know too many 70-years-old schizophrenics
that were 40 to 50 years on heavy medication, do you?