     STARTREK NOTES:  HI FELLOW FANS--THIS IS MY FIRST ENTRY ONTO
THE STARTREK NEWS GROUP.  HERE, FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION, IS THE
FIRST PART MY STORY, PART ONE, WHICH IS REALLY THE PROLOGUE. I CAN
BE REACHED PREFERABLY AT EMAIL
ADDRESS 35002_4035@UWOVAX.UWO.CA OR ON THE NEWSGROUP FOR ANY
COMMENTS YOU MIGHT HAVE. 
 
 
 
ALLIANCE
 
STARDATE: CLASSIFIED
LOGS:  CLASSIFIED
 
     The council room was furnished sparsely, with only the bare
necessities--a large black table and seven chairs.  There was the
smell of ancient death, of cold steel stained with the blood of a
thousand warriors.  It was exactly the same as the planet: 
Klinzhai, or Klingon as it is known by the United Federation of
Planets.  Every Klingon now in the room had known nothing but
struggle in reaching their positions, the highest of the Empire. 
From their birth, they had understood only hardship, but that
hardship had brought survival and honour, scraped and clawed from
their brothers, just as they had from their unforgiving home world.
 
It was these seven Klingon warriors supreme who decided the next
moves of the Empire, moves that could send it in war, as every
Empire planet had known only too well, or move further into peace
and cooperation with the Federation of Planets, and with humans.
 
     Kaarg, impetuous as most young Klingons are, spoke first.  His
was the ambition for Klingon to return to the old times of glory
and honourable death.  The way Kahless the Unmerciful One had shown
their planet:  'Fear but one thing--to die a coward's death.' 
Kaarg spoke with that fear, not just for himself, but for his
Empire.  "We have lost all honour in this alliance with the
Earthmen.  They weaken the Empire with their soft flesh and feeble
bodies.  We must be made strong again, we must purify ourselves
against these Humans.  They are treacherous, spineless creatures
like the Romulans.  We have seen how alliances of the past take
away from the power of the Empire.  We must be strong!  Kahless
would laugh in our faces...we act as old women!"
 
     Two other commanders, Kotal and Klorg, nodded their heads and
grunted, their lips raised showing a row of dagger teeth.  Like
Kaarg, they were young, having succeeded through extreme
ruthlessness and, of course, bravery.  Kahsa and Kohja remained
silent, for they were old, and had gotten that way by waiting to
see who would be the strongest, then yielding their full support to
that side.
 
     Khohli, who had been raised in the worst part of Klinzhai, the
outreaches, reacted angrily.  "It is well to speak of old ways, and
of glory.  But there is much to gain from the Earthmen.  They show
us ways of changing dead soil into living, of medicines--"
 
     Kaarg swore then spat, "What does a warrior need of medicines
or food?  Our little ones already begin to be spoiled.  They spend
their time watching little video screens and not learning the ways
of the warrior.  They refuse to join the Empire's army.  Is this
what you wish, Khohli?  Why not put on a woman's 'rehal' and sit on
the Earth planet tending for their little bloodworms!"
 
     Khohli's eye's grew large and black, as black as the brows
above them.  He angled his head down, pointing the long crest at
the top of his head towards Kaarg, as if he were about to impale
him with it.
 
     Kor, the Supreme Commander, had been silent until now.  With
anger, he smashed his fist into the table.  "Enough!"  Even Kaarg
jumped at the sound of the commanding voice.  "We are a people of
honour!  Even Kahless proclaimed honour to be foremost.  We have
made a treaty with the Earthmen, signed by this council!"  Eying
each Klingon slowly, carefully, Kor continued sternly, "Do not
underestimate these 'spineless people'--I have fought them, time
and time again!  They are equal to ourselves in battle--"
 
     Kaarg grunted loudly in disgust, growling to himself that no
Earther was equal to him in battle.  Kor smiled at the young
commander.  "So, there is one here that does not believe.  Let the
one fight Kirk..."
 
     Kaarg became livid.  "Kirk!  Kirk!  All I hear of is this
Kirk!  Who is this 'straave' that he makes the Empire bow like
'kuve'?  All Earthmen are dogs!  They are to be used for sport.  No
Klingon can lose honor dealing with the worm that crawls at his
feet!"
 
     Kor brought his face close to Kaarg, until his breath fell
heavily upon his face.  "He is Kirk, the one who has beaten the
finest of the Empire.  His ship is the Enterprise, and all know of
it."
 
     Kaarg felt a sickness rising in his stomach.  To see the Great
Kor, who had singlehandedly destroyed three Romulan ships with a
burned out cruiser be so in awe of an Earthling, made him utter the
worst of the Klingon insults.  "You are weak, Kor!  You dishonour
us all!"
 
     Everyone at the table looked at Kor, and waited.  Kaarg's
insolence was growing daily, but this insult could not go
unpunished.  He would have to be dealt with, or he would become
Supreme Commander, and that meant either him or Kor would be dead
by next day time.  "Kaarg," started Kor diplomatically though if
one were to know Kor, they would fear being addressed so, "you are
still as yet young in years.  There are other ways of dealing with
the Federation, other ways of defeating an opponent worse than
giving death, for death would bring honour to him."
 
     "More so to the one who killed him," interjected Kaarg,
boldly, "if he is as worthy a warrior as you say, Kor."
 
     Kor smiled once again, then continued.  "The Federation wants
closer ties to Klinzhai.  To achieve this, they will yield
considerable power.  They will give us enough power to take Kirk's
ship away, to drive him into shame.  Nothing could bring more
torment to Kirk then to take his ship away, to disgrace him." 
Kaarg halted for a moment in consideration of such an unthinkable
end for a true warrior.  Kor pressed his advantage.  "I have fought
Kirk, and know him well.  Think Kaarg!  What would you do if your
ship and your command were taken away?"
 
     Kaarg was nervous at the thought, especially the way Kor was
staring, as if that fate might also be meant for him.  The others
around the table, even Kotal and Klorg, murmured their
appreciation.  Warily, Kaarg did not answer.  He still was of two
minds, divided by his respect for Kor and the glory he had brought
Klinzhai, and the screaming of his blood for a warrior's death.
 
     "Well?" growled Kor, awaiting for a response from the council.
 
     "Kai, Kor!" came five voices of appreciative commanders.
 
     "Kai," added Kaarg quietly, still deep in thought.
 
     
                         * * * * *
 
     As the Klingon council was ending, on a lonely planet at the
intersection of Federation, Romulan, and Klingon space, a thin,
sharp toothed man was watching carefully for a particular human to
come out of large, star shaped building.  He stood in the shadows,
waiting patiently.  It was not until two hours later that a short,
grey-haired man finally exited the building and looked around.  The
sharp toothed man stepped towards him, a large hat hiding his eyes
completely.
 
     "Looking for a grav unit?"  The question was cold, without
emotion.
 
     "Yes, yes," remarked the man gratefully.  Speaking nervously,
he commented, "I don't know where everyone is today."
 
     The sharp toothed man did not reply, but he did note with
satisfaction the briefcase the small earthman was carrying. 
Beneath a Federation symbol was printed, 'Scientist S. Kennedy,
Babylon.  The Gravity Equations'.  He turned for the shadows,
motioning the owner of the briefcase to follow.  "The Grav car is
around the corner."   A lean finger directing the way.
 
     The man followed.  "Say, are you new around here?  I don't
recognize you."
 
     Through the shadows, an anti-gravitation rider appeared.  "I
am called Callix, Mr. Kennedy," replied the sharp-toothed driver as
he opened a door.  "The scientific board wanted to have someone to
ensure your safety."
 
     The words were edged with sarcasm, but the scientist, too
concerned with the heat, wiped his brow and grunted, "Home in a
hurry."

     I HAVE TRIED TO INTEGRATE THE STORY WITH THE CURRENT LINE OF
THE ORIGINAL STAR TREK AND IF I HAVE MADE A FEW ERRORS, PLEASE
ACCEPT MY APOLOGY.  THE FIRST PART WAS THE PROLOGUE (GREAT STORY
PART 1) AND NOW I GIVE YOU PART 2, SET AT THE GREAT HALL OF THE
FOP.
 
 
     "There is a new age upon us.  Klingon wants peace, our Empire
wants peace."  The deep voice reverberated throughout the vast
hall.  "The Federation has proven its worth and trust to our
peoples, and we honour that worth.  We value that trust.  We ask
one simple thing in return for our full union with the Federation: 
That James Kirk be dismissed from the Enterprise and forced into
retirement."
 
     The entire hall stirred, a thousand different voices from a
thousand different Federation planets murmuring to one another. 
The large blue 'Federation of Planets" flag seemed to waver in
agreement.  The Klingon ambassador waited for silence. He
continued, "We have asked, in the past, for the death of this man. 
For his imprisonment.  But now, we ask only that he, and the legend
he has created, be forgotten.  James Kirk has angered every Klingon
commander in the Empire...and there are bitter feelings."  Deep
black eyebrows knitted together almost passionately.  "He has
angered many others as well, some from your own Federation."  A few
scattered grunts of approval could clearly be heard.  "Is it not
time that you allow us to forget the past conflicts between the
Federation and our Empire?  Please realize that the embodiment of
those conflicts lives as a man--as James Kirk.  We can never truly
have peace until those wounds are healed."
 
     The Klingon ambassador played his final card.  "What is most
disturbing of all, however, is the gathering support for a renewed
Klingon/Romulan treaty, and I, though a Klingon warrior in my own
right, dread of what consequenses such a treaty would bode for the
future place in the galaxy of the United Federation of Planets
should our pleas come to no avail this day.  Therefore, I ask
humbly, for the peace of the galaxy and the promised union of two
great Empires, for the Federation and for Klingon, help us to
forget the battles of yesterday, help us to forget James Kirk."
 
     The entire hall of the Federation Council was buzzing.  The
ambassador, head bowed for effect, returned to his seat.  He had
been very effective, he knew it.  Now let his words go to work and
achieve what no other being in the galaxy could do:  the separation
of James Kirk and the Enterprise.  
 
                              * * *
 
     Kirk's eyes fell.  They shouldn't have, not after all these
years.  He should have expected it from Starfleet, they had never
given him anything but problems.
 
     "...so it must be considered.  Jim...we won't force you,
you've done too much for us, but if you think about it, it is for
the best.  The times of war have passed."  'Jim'...how many
admirals, how many Council seaters have all called him Jim, as
though they had been childhood friends.  There were only a very few
people in this universe that he felt good about calling him Jim,
and Admiral Stralk was not one of them.
 
     "Admiral, if Starfleet has decided, then I won't put up a
fight.  It just would be nice-"
 
     "No one will force you, Jim," the Admiral continued,
placatingly.  It will be your decision, no one else's.  But there
is the very real possibility that what you decide will affect
galactic peace for the next thousand years.  Is one man's pride
worth the risk of a galactic war, worth billions of lives?  In the
end, you will have to decide.  Starfleet out."
 
     'Starfleet out', there was a little irony in signing off that
way.  The captain's quarters door buzzed.
 
     "Come."
 
     "Well, Jim?"
 
     "Bones, if I told you that I have an overwhelming need to be
ten billion miles away from here, in a place where there's only me,
a sailing ship, a big wide ocean, and a remote, admiral-less island
to be found, what would you think?"
 
     "So it's true."
 
     Kirk's mouth curled up to one side and McCoy knew.
 
     "Blasted Starfleet!  They can't ask you to do this, Jim!  You
can't ask a man to give his entire life saving the galaxy every
other week and then take it all away from him!"
 
     Kirk smiled inwardly.  He knew McCoy would react that way and
he was grateful.  "Bones, am I so important?  Is it so much
different than giving your life to stop a war?  I was prepared to
do that countless times."
 
     "But this is different, Jim!  They want to rewrite history--
like you and everything you did never existed, just to soothe the
honour of a few Klingons.  You beat them, and since they couldn't
destroy you, they have to wipe your memory clean away!  Damn it,
Jim, it's not right!  You know it's not!"
 
     Kirk sighed.  McCoy was right, but he was wrong too.  "I know
what you would do if given the same choice, Bones."
 
     McCoy felt a point scored.  He tried a new strategy.  "So you
let them wipe out the name of James T. Kirk.  The Federation
council erases all the computer records of every mission you led so
the Klingons can be happy.  Now peace reigns supreme in the galaxy,
and all the bad things the Klingons ever did are forgotten.  Then
what do they do with you?  Wave you away so they don't have to give
you a pension?"  McCoy was breathing heavily.  He leaned over his
Captain and placed a hand on a stiff shoulder.  "Jim, you stood for
something.  You're a legend--a hero to countless beings across the
universe.  What will they think when there's no more Jim Kirk? 
Will they understand?"
 
     "The universe is a big place, Bones.  And people forget..."
 
     McCoy let Kirk's words trail off without a reply.  Instead, he
went over to the cabinet, punched a few buttons, and pulled out two
glasses and a bottle of Saurian brandy.  Just what the Doctor
ordered, McCoy thought to himself as he poured two full drinks.
 
                              * * *
    
     The Romulan war room was extremely hot, by earth standards. 
Much like Vulcan, Romulus cracked and sputtered under the nearby
sun's rays, unless under the shadow of its companion planet, Remus. 
Tulak, the acknowledged successor to the Praetor spoke, his voice
grave.  "We have confirmation now, there is no doubt.  The
Federation scientist Kennedy has discovered a method to convert
gravimetric force into utilizable energy."  The Romulan commander
halted for a moment as the others murmured amongst themselves.  The
sun gleamed strong behind him in the window.  Remus was not yet
visible, nor would it be for another hour.  He continued after
quiet fell.  "Yet further, there is a major 'koti stal', a black
star, nearby.  The scientist Kennedy's next step was to build a
functional converter using the black star's enormous gravitational
force.  If his theory is indeed correct, there would be enough
convertible energy to move an entire planet."
 
     The war room erupted in a fervent discussion.  Tulak waited
until only a few whispers could be perceived.  Someone shouted, "We
must act quickly, before the Federation and the Klingons use the
device to destroy our Empire!"
 
     The room erupted again in loud discussion.  Tulak waited until
it was appropriate to speak again.  "I agree that we must act
quickly and with force."  There were several murmurs of
endorsement.  "But we must also act honorably first and foremost. 
There can be no question of threat if the scientist Kennedy's
equations can be used to utilize the black star's great
gravitational force.  Yet we must remember, the Earthmen have made
no secret of their work.  Why would they develop such powerful
knowledge on a planet with Romulan, Klingon and Federation
scientists?  It does not seem logical."
 
     Another member spoke out.  "Perhaps the Earth scientist
discovered the knowledge by accident?"
 
     Tulak acknowledged the comment with a smile.  "This may be so,
but the scientist Kennedy worked with a fellow Romulan scientist. 
It may indeed be possible that we are the first of the three
Empires to have full knowledge of their work."
 
     "Then we must take this scientist Kennedy and develop the
weapon for ourselves!" cried another.
 
     Tulak raised a hand to silence the room.  "Unfortunately, an
agent destroyed the scientist in an escape attempt.  It was not
intentional, nor was it discovered by the Federation.  He is
presumed missing somewhere past outer Babylon.  Our Romulan
scientists are only now beginning to understand his equations and
their military applications.  There is much doubt as to their
actual capacity for use with a black star.  Even so, to start
another war with the Earthmen would be foolish at this point.  They
are said to be fully allied with Klinzhai, but we do not know the
strength of this alliance.  As Praetor-to-be, I will personally
command a full squadron of Birds-of-Prey.  We will go to Tridare,
and we will wait for the Earthmen to come.  Then we shall see. 
Perhaps it is best to study the situation before acting rashly."
 
     "What if the Earthmen attack?" someone asked.
 
     Tulak nodded gravely.  "The responsibility will be mine alone. 
If we are destroyed, then we will know the Earthmen are the
stronger for the moment.  This will give us time to prepare.  But
it is my hope that we too may form an alliance with the Federation,
perhaps to the disadvantage of the Klinzhai.  The Earthmen have one
point in their favour:  The strength of the alliance with our
brothers the Vulcans.  Perhaps there is a place for us as well.  We
will go to Tridare and we will wait."
 
                              * * *
 
     "Status, Mr. Chekov."  Kirk eased into the captain's chair. 
In the background he could hear the continuous calls of each
section reporting in.  He listened, but only with his sixth sense.
 
     "Everything's operating within normal parameters, Kaptin.  We
are due to rendezvous with the Avenger in two hours, twenty-six
minutes."
 
     "Thank-you, Mr. Chekov."  Without even looking, Kirk could
feel Spock would be over to side within a few seconds.  "Well,
Spock, what's going on now?"
 
     Spock was there and he was ready.  "The Avenger is a prototype
class 1-D.  We're to observe it in a mock battle situation and note
its performance."
 
     "A 1-D, Spock?  That's fighter class.  What's the Federation
doing building 1-D fighting ships?"
 
     "An excellent question, Captain.  From Starfleet reports, it
was built in anticipation of increased Klingon and Romulan
hostilities.  But with the onset of peace with the Klingons, it
appears it will be the only one of its kind."
 
     "So it was built before the admission of Klingon to the
Federation?"
 
     "Officially, yes."
 
     "Officially, Mr. Spock?  And of course they just couldn't
scrap her once she was built.  Let's have a look."  Kirk slid out
of the captain's chair to a screen near the science station. 
Spock's fingers graced several buttons and a schematic of the
Avenger immediately appeared.
 
     "I've never seen anything like it.  Look at that, Mr. Spock!" 
Kirk's face registered his admiration.  The Avenger was clearly an
attack ship, with its hawk-like front and lean design, a design
partial to speed and maneuverability.
 
     "It is state of the art, Captain, with warp 9.98 capacity."
 
     "Who's her Captain?"
 
     Spock shifted his feet unnaturally but did not respond.
 
     "Spock," the Captain remarked, failing to notice the Vulcan
had not answered his question, "doesn't the lower shell look a
little too close to an old style Romulan bird of prey?  And look at
the bridge!  Spock, that's the most menacing ship I've ever seen--
are you sure that's one of ours?"
 
     "Indeed, Captain, the Federation wanted a pure fighting
machine.  The Romulan resemblance is no mistake.  Nor is the hawk-
like projection which contains the bridge--in its beak, you might
say, Jim."
 
     "Did they go as far as a cloaking device?"
 
     "Not precisely.  Although the basic colour is white, as all
Federation starships, the Avenger contains a unique sensor-
distortion field enabling the ship to project, or to be more
precise, register a blurred image on a sensor scan.  On a screen,
the ship would appear a hazy blue."
 
     "So if it were to be fired upon..." picked up Kirk.
 
     "...the attacking vessel would have great difficulty managing
a direct hit," finished Spock.  "It was basically a trade off
between power consumption and cloaking capability.  With this
system, the Avenger is able to attack while in distortion mode,
unlike a cloaked vessel."
 
     "You sound as though you approve, Spock."
 
     "Not approval, Captain.  Purely a scientific interest."
 
     Kirk nodded an "of course".  The military part of him watched
the specs of the weaponry with fascination, and he felt a rush of
power at the thought of controlling such a ship.  With the improved
phaser and torpedo capacity, there was also a new proto-plasma
energy cannon.
 
     Spock observed the Captain's interest in the device.  "Yes,
Captain, much like the older Romulan version.  While its
dissipation potential was only marginally decreased, delivery time
was reduced by thirty-seven point three six two percent."
 
     "You get hit more than once by that thing, and I don't care
what kind of shielding you have, your ship is in trouble."
 
     "Quite, Captain.  It appears to be a most efficient fighting
machine."
 
     "Do you think it will ever see action, Spock?"
 
     "In the interest of peace, I hope not."
 
     "Hope, Spock?"
 
     Spock's face appeared grave.  "Even the knowledge of its
existence could bring about an undesirable escalation in military
capability."
 
     Kirk understood.  It was a ship that should not have been
built.  It was not the Federation way to advance an arms race, even
if the Avenger had been built in a period of strained galactic
relations.  "And they still want us to test her out, Spock?"
 
     "Evidently, Captain.  Those were Starfleet orders."
 
     "Starfleet..." muttered Kirk, as if swearing.
 
     "Captain, I believe you are overdue for a meeting with Mr.
Sulu in the simulation chamber," reminded Spock, halting Kirk's
present train of thought.
 
     "Yes, Mr. Sulu.  See that we arrive on schedule with the
Avenger, Mr. Spock.  You have the conn."
 
                              * * *
 
     Two ships hovered near the Enterprise with anger.  They were
full Romulan battlecruisers, and they meant trouble.  With deft
fingering, Sulu guided the Enterprise with the standard evasive
manuevers.  Two streams of light issued from the ship on the right. 
Even Sulu, with his experience, could not bring the Enterprise
about to avoid being struck.  The bolts shook him in his seat. 
Starboard shields were reduced by fifty percent.  There was no
alternative.  Destroy the two Romulans, or be destroyed.  He could
not run.
 
     With icy calmness, Sulu plotted a micro-second warp burst. 
Then another.  Then another.  An almost perfect ellipse about the
two alien warships.  He shook again from two more hits.  Forward
shields down seventy-five percent.  It was time to engage the
plotted course--but would the ship do what he asked?  Scotty would
be spitting nails if he knew.
 
     The Enterprise shifted from being stationary to warp one then
a dead stop.  It was a micro-second of power.  Sulu hit the phaser
button.  A stream of light ripped into the Romulan on the left
creating a burst of rainbow colour on contact with its shields. 
Another micro-warp, another blast.  This time the phasers cut into
metal.  Micro-warp.  Sulu shifted his hand to the torpedo release,
shot one, went back to the phasers, fired a burst at the other
Romulan, fought back his rising nausea, and went into another warp
burst.
 
     There was a spectacular explosion almost blinding him.  But he
didn't need his eyes.  His hands continued mechanically.  A phaser
shot, then a warp burst.  There was only one Romulan ship left.  He
came out of the final warp burst with the ship's guns blazing.  The
Romulan ship was cut to pieces, several parts of the engineering
section falling away to the empty space leaving the main portions
of the alien ship and the surviving people within, helpless. 
Sensors read multiple explosions within, life supports systems
inoperative with weapons capacity and ship maneuverability long
since lost.  Smiling coolly, Sulu programed another torpedo for
release.  Without hesitation, he blew the near-dead ship to pieces.
 
     "Sulu!"
 
     The lights came on and Kirk charged into the room.  "What
happened to the concept of surrender?" he demanded, more shocked
than angry.
 
     "Captain--"  Sulu began hesitantly.  He had not realized Kirk
had been watching.
 
     Kirk waited for an answer.  He wasn't going to let Sulu off
the hook.
 
     "As you know, Captain," the helm master continued awkwardly,
"Romulans have a strict code of honour.  They would have destroyed
themselves rather then surrender.  I only wanted to save them the
embarrassment."
 
     Kirk lifted his head with suspicion.  It was a lame excuse. 
"Mr. Sulu, I will assume that you would not perform as such under
actual circumstances.  But the question remains, how did you do
that?"
 
     "Do what, sir?"
 
     "Sulu, I've never seen anything like it!"  It was the second
time Kirk found himself saying those words.
 
     "Oh, you mean the attack strategy.  It would not have been
possible if Mr. Spock had not programmed the gravity compensation
units to withstand the short warping."
 
     "Of course."  Kirk looked puzzled for a moment.  "Did you
think that attack strategy up on your own, Mr. Sulu?"  Sulu did not
respond except for a small release of facial surprise.  Of course
he did, answered Kirk to himself.  "Mr. Sulu, those were some of
the most brilliant and original battle tactics I have ever seen."
 
     Sulu glowed.  He considered his Captain the best battle
strategist there ever was, and if James Kirk felt moved enough to
give a rare compliment, he would allow himself some self-gratitude.
 
     Kirk went over to the console, inspecting it closely.  It was
an exact duplicate of the one on the bridge.  "The programmed ship
response, is it realistic?  The Enterprise could actually perform
under battle conditions in a similar manner?"
 
     "Mr. Spock programed the simulator himself."
 
     Kirk was more than satisfied with Sulu's answer.  If Spock
programmed the computer to react the way the Enterprise would--
 
     "But Captain," offered Sulu, interrupting Kirk's thoughts, "I
wouldn't want to do it on a full stomach."
 
     "I will keep that in mind, Mr. Sulu," mulled Kirk. 
"Unfortunately, I don't think we'll ever get a chance to implement
your strategy."
 
     "Captain?" questioned Sulu at Kirk's unexpected words.
 
     "Never mind, Mr. Sulu, just a private observation.  Be sure to
log your work with StarFleet."
 
     "Yes, sir."
 
     Kirk's eyes twinkled in a sudden mischievous thought.  "And
Mr. Sulu, be sure the Enterprise could, if called upon, perform the
same maneuvers.  Maybe we'll decide to take over the universe
ourselves--starting with a new Federation ship."
 
     Sulu laughed and said, "I'll leave you to tell Mr. Scott what
you want to do with his engines."
 
     With a chuckle, Kirk left him to the simulator.

PART 3
 
 
     There was the large table, twelve chairs, and the omni-present
blue and white flag behind the table's head.  It was the Cabinet
room of the United Federation of Planets.
 
     "There will not be true peace until the Klingon proposal is
put through.  Almost every race in the galaxy, including the
Vulcans, have had their fill of James Kirk."  Chief Admiral Dunn
pointed his finger at an imaginary target to accentuate his last
point.  
 
     The eldest Cabinet member, Vice-president Barrett, addressed
Admiral Stralk.  "What did he have to say, Bill, when you asked
him?"  
 
     Stralk rubbed his chin, then answered, "He didn't like it, to
put it mildly."
 
     Dunn jumped in.  "Of course he didn't like it.  He's been in
a Captain's chair far too long--far too long.  He's a soldier,
nothing more.  There should be no question about the Klingon
proposal, none.  Kirk should have stepped down long ago."
 
     Barrett turned his seat to face Dunn directly.  "James Kirk
should have a universe named in his honour after all he's done. 
The man has literally saved this planet!  I know what he has given
to the Federation, and I will not be party to his dismissal!"
 
     "He did what he was trained to do," retorted Dunn.  "Any
member of Starfleet would have done the same."
 
     "But this is James Kirk--"
 
     "Yes, James Kirk," cut off Dunn, sitting forward in his chair,
"the same James Kirk who has broken every Starfleet regulation in
the book!"   He relaxed back into his chair, easing the tension
between him and Barrett.  The other Cabinet members watched
closely, the outcome of the proposal clearly drawn between himself
and the Vice-President.  But Barrett was not the politician he was.
 
     "I'm not saying, 'Let's get Jim Kirk'.  This is not a court-
martial," continued Dunn smoothly.  "The Klingons are not asking
that he be remanded into their custody.  They are just asking that
Kirk be gently retired, a few logs amended here and there. 
Klingons have a strong tradition of pride and honour.  Kirk has
time and time again rubbed into that tradition, making the entire
Klingon race look foolish."  Dunn was ready for his final, winning
point.  "In other words, Gentlemen, they can't join the Federation
with honour if it looks like they are being forced to because they
have lost to Starfleet.  And that loss is embodied by James T.
Kirk."  Dunn folded his hands onto the table, satisfied.
 
     The final count was close, 7-5, but it was still for the
motion.  There was only the matter of Presidential approval which
would take a week at most.  The final arrangements perhaps another. 
In the end, it meant James Kirk's career was officially over.     
 
 
                           * * * * *
 
     
     The Avenger's Captain shifted his weight once more.  "Status,
Lieutenant Dearla."
 
     Dearla winced.  It couldn't just be her--the Captain must be
asking every five minutes.  Once more she checked her chronometer. 
It had been only four minutes.  "Enterprise rendezvous in one hour
six minutes."
 
     They were nervous, all of them, but none more so than the man
seated in the command chair.
 
     "We're well within direct hailing range, Captain," noted his
First Officer.
 
     "No, Mr. Manluk, I'd rather wait."
 
     Manluk sensed this would be the response he would receive from
his Captain.  He could perceive his friend's nervousness, a curious
emotion that he felt himself, and did his best to suppress.
 
     "Engineering to Captain Kirk."
 
     "Yes, Marty."
 
     "Captain, we're getting a malfunction warning down here with
the distortion matrix.  Anything up there?"
 
     'Damn', Kirk swore to himself, 'I don't want this.  Everything
has to be perfect.'  He turned to his navigator.  "Lieutenant, the
distorter?"
 
     "No malfunction indicated here, sir."
 
     "Marty, there's nothing showing up here.  Are you sure there's
a problem?"
 
     "I'll double check, Captain.  I didn't mean to worry--"
 
     "Understood, Marty.  Report your findings.  Captain out."
 
     Varien tried not to sound strained, but everything had to be
perfect for the Avenger's rendezvous with the Enterprise.  He
brushed at a lock of his light brown hair which immediately fell
back into its original place on his forehead.  He was young and
very handsome with a pair of blue eyes and a smile so devilishly
sweet he could disarm the most wary of men and the coldest of
women.  He sat back and waited tensely for his Chief Engineer's
report. 
 
                              * * *
 
     "Status, Mr. Chekov," Kirk asked as he slipped once more into
his Captain's chair.  After watching Sulu's demonstration in the
simulator, he had gone directly to his quarters to think.  It had
been an interminably long hour alone in his cabin; his thoughts
were as confused as ever--Starfleet asking him to retire, or
rather, disappear from all records except the basic mission
reports.  No citations, no medals, just a clean, sanitary record. 
Even his personal logs would be exterminated.  At least here, in
his chair and on his bridge, he could put away his personal
struggle.
 
     "Contact with the Avenger in two point seven minutes, Kaptin,"
reported Chekov.
 
     "Get me ship to ship, Uhura."
 
     As Uhura reached for the communications tie-in, McCoy and Sulu
sauntered out of the turbo-lift, both smiling from the remnants of
a joke.  Sulu went directly to his post, giving a nod to Chekov as
he sat down.  McCoy went to stand beside his friend.
 
     "Well, Jim, what's up?  Has Starfleet got us diaper training
new ships now?"
 
     Kirk smiled.  "Look's that way, Bones.  A new ship design and
they want us to give her a work-over."
 
     "Well, they got the best."
 
     Everyone one on the bridge took in McCoy's compliment.  Spock
came over to stand on the other side of Kirk's chair.  "They have
their distortion field in operation, Captain."
 
     "Evaluation, Mr. Spock."
 
     "It appears to be operating efficiently.  The sensors read
intermittent images."
 
     "I have ship to ship now, Captain."
 
     "Put it on the screen, Lieutenant."
 
     The screen began to fade into the bridge of the Avenger. 
"This is Captain James T. Kirk of the Starship Enterprise," Kirk
began automatically.  With a smile he added, "Welcome to space."
 
     The bridge of the Avenger stood mesmerized.  Everyone,
including her Captain, was sure now...seeing them together, there
could be no mistake.  "This is Captain J. Varien Kirk of the
Starship Avenger.  Thank you, Captain, this is a great honour." 
The young man's words rang with pride.
 
     At the mention of the name 'Kirk', everyone on the Enterprise
bridge immediately brought their eyes to full attention onto the
screen.  Uhura gasped.  Sulu and Chekov exchange glances.  McCoy
took turns staring at both Captains.  Only Spock remained unmoved,
both Vulcan and human parts.
 
     Jim Kirk smiled for a moment, almost embarrassed.  "Would you
like to come over for a briefing...Captain."  He stopped himself
from asking the obvious--are we related?
 
     With his palms sweating, the younger Captain answered,
remaining as cool as possible, "Fine, sir.  My first officer and I
will be over in five minutes--that is, if that's convenient for
you."
 
     "That will be fine, Captain.  Until then."  The screen
vanished leaving in its place a magnificent warship.  Only Sulu
took any real notice of its design.  The rest of the crew kept
their eyes on James Kirk.
 
     "Captain," began Uhura, "is he...?"
 
     Kirk responded hesitantly, half chuckling.  "I'm not sure. 
Maybe somewhere down the line, but I don't think we're directly
related."
 
     McCoy burst forth.  "The hell you're not.  That boy looks just
like you, Jim!"
 
     Kirk turned to Spock and noticed for the first time a slight
nervousness in his first officer.  "Spock, do you...?"
 
     "Yes, Jim, he's your son."
 
     Spock's words stabbed into Kirk's heart.  Another son?  Could
it be?  
 
     McCoy broke out again with a grin a parsec long.  "Well,
haven't you been a busy little bee these past few years, Jimmy-
boy."
 
     Kirk felt everyone's eyes closing in.  He had to get out, he
had to leave the bridge.  Not even they, his closest friends, could
understand.  "Spock, McCoy, come with me.  Mr. Sulu, you have the
conn."  The orders were snapped and quickly obeyed.  Kirk was
already in the turbo before McCoy could turn to Spock.
 
     McCoy spoke first as they turned to leave.  "You knew Spock?"
the Doctor asked, curiously.
 
     Spock nodded.  He wanted to say that his knowledge was self-
evident therefore McCoy's question was illogical, but the face of
his Captain told him silence was the best policy for the moment. 
McCoy followed him into the turbo-lift, shaking his head in
disbelief.
 
     As the turbo doors slammed shut, Kirk turned to his first
officer.  "Mr. Spock, I want an explanation."  He was angry.
 
     "Now, Jim," McCoy started to drawl in his country doctor
voice.
 
     Kirk was harsh in response.  "That's enough, McCoy.  I'm
waiting, Mr. Spock."
 
     "Jim, I--"  Spock had sputtered uncharacteristically, as if
surprised at his Captain's abruptness.
 
     Kirk did not let the Vulcan continue.  "Why didn't you tell me
before, Spock?  Dammit, why?  I've already lost one son I never
knew I had...and I never got to know.  I blame myself for that. 
Now I find out I have another one who's Captain of an experimental
warship?"
 
     Spock and McCoy brought their eyes to the floor.  They both
felt the pain in Kirk's voice.  And they both remembered.  The
turbo-lift halted and was about to open its doors when Kirk
commanded it to stop.  "Dammit Spock, why didn't you tell me?"
 
     "Jim," the Vulcan murmured slowly.  He was hurt from the pain
of his friend's voice, and hurt that he didn't handle the situation
better.  But it had always been this way for him.  Even as close as
he was to Kirk and McCoy, he still found it difficult to
communicate on a personal level, at least not until the last
possible moment.  Was it only yesterday when he had to suffer the
time of 'pohn farr' for the first time on the Enterprise--not being
able to explain even to Jim?  Had not the bridge of the Enterprise
met his wife T'Pring much the same way Kirk had met his other son? 
And his parents, Amanda and Sarek.  Not until they had come off the
shuttle did Spock tell Kirk and McCoy they were his parents.  'Only
on a need to know basis', was that not how all his personal life
was given?  Yet he knew of the Captain's pain from the loss of one
son.  And yet, logic dictated that it was not his place to divulge
the knowledge.  Was it not Varien's, his son?  Yet the Captain's
pain was self-evident.  His voice echoed the awkwardness with which
he was dealing with his emotions.  "Captain, I wanted to spare
you..."
 
     "Spare me, Spock?  Spare me what--the embarrassment of finding
out about another son?  Did I have to see him for the first time on
my own bridge?"  Kirk's voice fell as he icily asked,  "How long
have you known, Spock?"
 
     "Jim!" interrupted McCoy again.  A pair of burning hazel eyes
turned to him but the Doctor ignored them.  "Jim, don't you think
there's a better place for this?  Spock's your best friend--if he
had his reasons for not telling you, you can damn well bet he
thought it was for the best."
 
     Kirk opened the doors.  He didn't say a word as he stormed out
of the lift and headed for the transporter room.  
 
     Spock turned to McCoy.  "Thank-you...Leonard," he said slowly,
sounding awkward at McCoy's so little used first name.  McCoy
nodded and smiled.  He had a look on his face of understanding, a
look he only shared with his Captain.  For this moment, their walls
of friendly hostility, so long understood by both, fell.  And both
knew this moment would only last until they saw Jim again, and then
they would return to their normal places.
 
     Reaching out an arm, McCoy gently ushered Spock to the
transporter room.  For once, the Vulcan did not stiffen at his
contact, and seemed...almost grateful for it.
 
     "Ready, Captain."  Scotty's tone was the same as it always
was.  He knew who he was transporting, but he did not let it show
in his voice.  News travelled that fast on the Enterprise.
 
     Kirk nodded and the room immediately glowed in light.  A
second later, two figures stood on the Enterprise transporter pads.
 
     "Welcome, Captain," James Kirk said diplomatically.  His voice
was cold.
 
     Varien Kirk stepped down followed by his first officer, a
large, broad shouldered man with dark brown skin.  "This is my
first officer, Mr. Manluk," he introduced.  Spock and McCoy stepped
forward to meet them.  Kirk remained sullen beside the transporter
console.
 
     "Hello, Spock," Varien greeted familiarly.  "This must be
Doctor Leonard Edward McCoy.  It's an honour to meet you sir, Mr.
Spock had told me a lot about you."
 
     "Captain," McCoy acknowledged with a smile.  "I hope its not
too late to repair my reputation."
 
     Varien laughed.  Manluk came forward to Spock.  "Live long and
prosper, sir," he greeted, giving the characteristic Vulcan hand
salute.
 
     "Live, long and prosper, Manluk," greeted Spock in reply.
 
     McCoy did a double take at Manluk's ears.  "Why, he's a
Vulcan!" he exclaimed out loud to no one.
 
     "Not entirely correct, sir," replied Manluk.  "My mother was
a Vulcan.  My father was a Terran."
 
     McCoy's eyes widened.  "That's all this universe needs--
another blasted Spock."  It was an automatic reaction, and he
regretted spitting the words out immediately even if they were
meant to be harmless.
 
     Manluk's eyebrow went up.  "If you make a comparison of myself
with Mr. Spock, then you do me great honour."
 
     McCoy smiled at the young Vulcan's reply despite himself.  "If
you're half as good an officer as Spock, you'll be just fine,
Manluk," he replied softly.
 
     Varien turned directly to his father for the first time.  He
had felt so at ease around Spock, but now--now his stomach
tightened as he neared the great man who was his father.  "Well..."
 
     Kirk cut him off.  "The briefing room is this way, Captain. 
Please follow me and we'll run through the test exercise for the
Avenger."
 
     Varien stopped short.  The clear decisiveness of his father
took him by surprise.  Their first meeting was not meant to be this
way.  He wondered if he had angered the famous man in some way. 
"Uh, Captain, I had hoped I could have a look around...I've heard
so much about the Enterprise.  Besides, my Chief Engineer would
like to meet with Mr. Scott, if that's possible."
 
     "Fine.  Arrange it with Mr. Scott.  I'll be in the briefing
room in thirty minutes.  I'm sure Mr. Spock will give you the
ship's tour if you want it."  With that, James Kirk left the
transporter room without a look back.
 
     Varien turned awkwardly towards the closing door.  "He's mad
at me, isn't he Spock?"  Everything seemed to going exactly the
opposite to the way he had dreamed.
 
     Spock hesitated and McCoy took the opening.  "Now don't you
worry, son, your being here has taken Jim a little by surprise. 
He'll be fine."
 
     Varien smiled weakly, lost for a moment.  He gathered himself
quickly and addressed the Enterprise's renown heart.  "Well, Mr.
Scott," asked the young Kirk, "have you the time to compare ships'
engines with my engineer?"
 
     "Aye, lad, that I do," smiled Scotty.
 
     "He's of Irish descent, Mr. Scott.  Martin O'Shean, but we
call him Marty for short."
 
     "Well, he's not quite a Scot but if he's a good engineer,
he'll be more than welcome.  You leave it to me, Captain, I'll give
him a call and invite him over."
 
     "Thank you, Mr. Scott.  He's a great admirer of yours...and so
am I.  The Enterprise...," Varien whispered, still taking in the
flagship of the Federation.
 
     McCoy spoke, breaking Varien out of his trance.  "Well Spock,
how about you show Mr. Manluk around while I acquaint Mr. Kirk here
with the Enterprise."
 
     Spock nodded and the four of them departed together out of the
transporter room.  The turbo-lift left Spock and Manluk off near
Spock's quarters while McCoy and Varien went to the control centre
of the ship.
 
     Uhura's smile was the first thing that greeted Varien as he
stepped out onto the Enterprise bridge.  All heads turned toward
him and he smiled to greet the faces he knew so well from computer
logs.
 
     "This is Lieut--" began McCoy.
 
     "Lieutenant Uhura," recognized Varien as he touched her hand. 
"And Mr. Sulu, and Mr. Chekov."
 
     "A pleasure to meet you, Kaptin," welcomed Chekov as Varien
turned toward them.
 
     Sulu repeated the salutation then turned to the viewer. 
"That's a beautiful ship you have there, Captain, I've never seen
anything like it."
 
     "Thank you, Mr. Sulu.  Perhaps you might give her the pleasure
of taking her around a bit."
 
     Sulu's mouth watered slightly.  "The forward section--that's
Romulan style, isn't it?"
 
     "You know your ships, Mr. Sulu.  Yes, and its designs came
from the Enterprise records of old style Romulan birds-of-prey. 
But as you can see, the engines are not contained in the main
section but are in the cylindrical projections just like the
Enterprise."  Varien felt a rush of pride explaining the Avenger's
design to the Enterprise's navigator.  "The bridge is in the narrow
projection from the front of the ship--just at the hook at the
end."
 
     "And Mr. Sulu," he finished, "she has near warp ten capacity."
 
     "It does not look like a ship that would fire last," put in
Chekov.
 
     "That, of course, depends on her Captain," smiled Varien, a
smile indistinguishable from James T. Kirk.  It sent chills up the
spines of the helmsman and navigator.
 
     McCoy took the opportunity of the following pause to say,
"Well, if you're finished looking around the bridge, Varien, we
should be getting to the briefing room."
 
     "Yes, of course, Doctor.  But first..."  With a mischievous
twinkle in his eye, Varien Kirk eased over into the Captain's chair
and sat as though he belonged.
 
     "Status, Mr. Sulu," he snapped, but with smile.  Sulu reacted
instinctively.
 
     "Everything reads clear, sir."
 
     "Distance from the Avenger, Mr. Chekov."
 
     "We're two thousand six hundred and fifty-six point five
metres away, sir."
 
     Varien laughed in delight at the efficiency of the two.  McCoy
broke in.  "If you're finished playing your father, we'd better not
keep the old man waiting or you won't be allowed to play later on."
 
     Varien turned with a wink to McCoy.  "Ok, Bones, let's get
moving."
 
     McCoy tried to look gruff as Varien passed him but a smile
broke out just the same and spread to the rest of the bridge. 
"Damn, he's just like his father," the Doctor said to the air, and
everyone on the bridge laughed.
 
                              * * *
 
     "You have learned much since we met last, Manluk."
 
     Manluk bowed his head graciously.  "Thank-you, 'moso wan'. 
Still, it remains so difficult to suppress emotion when one sees
the reaction of humans to half-Vulcans for the first time," he said
almost ashamed.  Obviously his interactions with the rest of the
Avenger crew had not been exactly perfect.
 
     Spock folded his hands together in thought.  "I understand
what you go through, Manluk.  But you must remember, Vulcan
philosophy does not demand the suppression of emotion but the
mastery of it.  There is a great difference.  Every Vulcan
experiences emotion to some degree.  It is how that individual
manages the emotion which enables him to adhere to logic and fact. 
Even so, you and I have a special gift, Manluk.  We border on two
great cultures, accepted by neither, nor rejected.  Humans have
capabilities that Vulcans have long considered illogical thus
inferior.  But I have found this not to be so.  Do not let your
human half control your intellect, but do not ignore nor discount
what it says."
 
     Manluk looked puzzled for a moment.  Spock continued, "I do
not wish to confuse you, Manluk, merely enable you to accept your
differences and rejoice in them.  You are a unique individual as
every living organism is.  Do not forget this fact, but most
importantly, do not let it separate you from the others.  I speak
from experience and I save you much pain if you remember my words."
 
     Large black hands, tinted a soft green, reached out to
Spock's.  Minds touched for a moment and became one.  Until Manluk
had met Spock, he had felt alone in the entire universe, alone,
different, and cursed.  His Vulcan mother had died giving him life
on a planet thousands of parsecs from that of her homeworld, an
outpost with a harsh climate fostering harsh people.  There was no
place for logic or considered thought, just how to survive the next
day.
 
     What became of his father Manluk did not know.  Perhaps killed
by a Ferengi or an Orion raid, perhaps dying in the outer caves
where the Terrans often went looking for rare crystal deposits
hoping to "make it big."
 
     He often wondered how the mating came to be between his
parents.  There was no logic in his mother's decision to couple. 
Yet Spock had conjectured that even Vulcans could succumb to
loneliness, and to desire.  Perhaps this had been so with his
mother.  Her family on Vulcan refused to even acknowledge her
existence, and thus his.  Once there had been anger within him,
anger for leaving him alone, anger for not being like the Terrans. 
Ears that were different, a mind that could read thoughts and feel
overwhelming passion at a touch--yes, he was different, but there
was no reason for shame, shame that he had known so well because he
was so different.  But Spock had demonstrated another way, the
proper way.  Rejoice in the infinite diversities of life, for this
is the way of a Vulcan--
 
     Their minds separated.  Manluk felt the peace of Spock's
disciplined mind, controlling thoughts, channelling them to logical
ends.  "I thank you, Spock.  Though it may be illogical, my heart
is glad that you are my sponsor."
 
     Spock nodded, smiling softly.  Steepling his fingers, he said
softly, "Manluk, it is the way of our people to honour the name of
Surak, the founder of modern Vulcan philosophy."
 
     Manluk, silent, obediently awaited further explanation.
 
     "Every Vulcan male, in respect of Surak and his founding
principles, has a name that begins with the consonant S.  Though it
is of little real importance, you have earned the right to realize
that respect."
 
     "Then I shall cherish the saviour of our people, and myself. 
I shall be known as S'Manluk in his honour, and my own."  The black
Vulcan's dark brown eyes went deep into thought.  He was a large
person, even by Vulcan standards, yet no less handsome, and he had
cut his long, black hair exactly as Spock's, not coincidentally.
 
     Spoke regarded Manluk carefully.  S'Manluk he was now, and
worthy of it.  There would be no repeating the mistake he had made
with Saavik, his greatest disappointment.  Perhaps he was not the
proper one to have sponsored her.  His human half had deceived him,
blinding him to the signs, the hidden thoughts she had guarded so
carefully.  But there was no error with S'Manluk.
 
     So much about him had changed since Spock had found him in the
detention cell in a self-induced catatonic state, the colony's lone
"psychiatrist" having long since given up the possibility that this
mix of genetics could possibly lead a normal life.  But how could
the human have conceived the pain Manluk endured or understand how
deep his Vulcan roots went.  When ponn farr came, the time of
mating, his Vulcan half took over.  There was no one to comprehend,
not even Manluk, of the mind-wrenching emotion and desire he
experienced.  And so there was only two choices for him.  Complete
madness leading to an early death, or the rejection of the reality
about him and the creation of his own world existing in his mind
alone.  What Manluk had achieved on his own, with no teaching, was
his own corrupt vision of the world of Vulcan, yet how could it not
be corrupt, for his mother had but a few precious moments to 
implant the seeds of a rich and glorious culture, the way of
Vulcan.
 
     Those seeds finally bore fruit after his first meeting with a
mind truly like his own, a half-Vulcan/half-human who gave him
understanding and compassion through the touch of his fingers. 
Only those empathetic hands could have pulled him out of his
mindrealm and back to the outerworld.  From the harsh colony
outpost of confusion and pools of hate-filled emotion to the strict
discipline of Starfleet academy, to a purpose in life, and a 'moso
wan', a foster father.  It was Spock who had introduced him to
Varien Kirk...Varien his friend with whom he had studied during his
academy training.  And now he had just been accepted fully into the
Vulcan fold by its secondmost honoured citizen...    
 
     Spock nodded to himself then arose and started out the door. 
"In two point six minutes," he announced clearly, in order to
capture S'Manluk's attention, "the briefing session with Captain
Kirk and Varien shall commence."
 
     S'Manluk stood and followed his mentor into the corridor. 
"Your Captain Kirk, he is angry with Varien?" he asked curiously.
 
     Spock's eyebrow rose.  "I believe he is angry with me,
S'Manluk."
 
     Into the turbo-lift, S'Manluk commented, "This does not seem
logical.  Should he not rejoice in his offspring?  Can you
explain?"
 
     Spock hesitated for a moment, meditating on the question, then
replied, "Human response is difficult to predict.  Even after many
years, one cannot accurately forecast human emotion.  I believe
however, that Captain Kirk is suffering from both the fear of
becoming a father once again, and self-guilt.  He has witnessed the
murder of a son he never knew, and he has great feelings of
culpability for that loss.  He wishes to forget what he believes
was his greatest failure, however illogically arrived that
conclusion is.  With Varien, that may no longer be possible now."
 
     The turbo-lift doors opened and they exited.  "I find both
father and son to be somewhat similar in emotional character.  Do
you agree?" asked S'Manluk.
 
     Spock almost sighed.  "Your observation is indeed correct. 
Both are stubborn, unpredictable, and yet excel at commanding a
starship.   However, this universe may not be large enough for two
Kirks of such similar disposition."  He almost smiled, showing
S'Manluk that the comment was meant to be taken humourously.
 
     They turned for the briefing room, catching sight of McCoy and
Varien coming down the hall.  The doors opened.  Inside sat a
lonely James T. Kirk deep in thought.
 
     Spock's eyebrow rose.  He motioned S'Manluk to a seat next to
himself and sat down.  Varien and McCoy sat directly across with
Jim Kirk who was seated at the accustomed head of the table.  There
was silence in the briefing room as everyone waited for the Captain
of the Enterprise to begin.
 
     "I take it you had a satisfactory tour, Captain?"
 
     Varien's eyes turned toward the Enterprise Commander.  "Yes,
thank-you, I did.  You have a magnificent ship, sir.  You must be
very proud of her."
  
     Though Varien's words were honest and true, they did little to
impress his fellow Captain.  "Thank-you," Kirk replied icily.  "I
have been informed that your engineer is in conference with Mr.
Scott.  Once they have finished, we will start the testing of the
Avenger."  Kirk's tone was strictly professional.  "You'll run
through the basic manoeuvres while Mr. Spock observes, after which
weaponry and shielding will be tested in the Annas asteroid field. 
Are there any questions?"  To Kirk, the query was meant to be
rhetorical and this fact registered plainly on his face.
 
     As he was about to rise, Varien spoke out.  "Captain, I had
hoped we could run through a mock battle.  The Avenger was, after
all, designed as an engagement vessel."
 
     Kirk's eyes lasered toward the man.  Spock agreed however. 
"The request is quite logical, Captain.  The Avenger is--"
 
     "Now I want this to be perfectly clear," Kirk enunciated
coldly, rudely cutting off his First Officer. "This is strictly an
evaluation exercise.  There will be no engagement of any kind
between the Enterprise and the Avenger.  This is a Federation
starship, not a testing dummy.  Is that understood?"
 
     It was.  Every person in the briefing room remained silent. 
"Fine, I shall be in my quarters.  Mr. Spock, you will direct the
testing."  Kirk turned and left, his face flushed red.
 
     "Damn..." mumbled McCoy in half disbelief.  He shifted his
teeth together as if just eating indigestible food.
 
                              * * *
 
     Kor was sitting in his private chambers when the news came. 
A massive Romulan build-up near the scientific planet of Tridare. 
He grunted at the communique.  Tridare, a worthless piece of rock
near a black star.  One of the Federation's experiments in racial
co-operation.  Klingons, Romulans, and Federation scientists.  Kor
had thought the other Empires had only sent spies, as he had.  No
one would dare work on something of importance, no one could be
that stupid.  Still, the Romulans were there and in a force to be
reckoned with.
 
     His private door buzzed.  On a private screen, he saw Kaarg
standing outside.  Kaarg.  While he was still young, he was prone
to rash behaviour, thus quite easily manipulated.  But Kaarg was
thirsty for glory, and power.  Kor would have to watch him. 
Curious as to why Kaarg was at his quarters so late, he let him in.
 
     Kaarg burst forward, initiated the appropriate salute, and
immediately sat down at Kor's table, an impertinence Kor did not
overlook though he said nothing.  "Commander," the young warrior
growled, "the Romulans--"
 
     Kor smiled and waved a hand.  It was interesting how Kaarg had
gained such top priority information.  He thought of several
procedures with which to begin his investigation, the mind-sifter
set on full, of course.  "The Romulans are fools.  They test us,"
he said to Kaarg aloofly.  "They wish to see our response, and the
Federation's."  Eying the young commander carefully, he vocalized,
"They fear the strength of our alliance with the Earthmen."
 
     Kaarg did not seem satisfied.  "They prepare to attack!  We
must go now and destroy them!  We can use the Earthmen to our
advantage.  Let them fight the Romulans while we wait.  Then we
shall destroy both.  Think of the glory for Klinzhai!"
 
     Kor chuckled to himself.  "The Earthmen are not as foolish as
you make them out to be, Kaarg.  They will send Kirk."
 
     Kaarg reacted as if he had eaten a disruptor.  "Kirk!  Kirk! 
That is all I hear!"  An accusing fist came towards Kor.  "Your
great plans of peace were to take Kirk away from his ship.  Now he
will go and destroy the Romulans...glory will go to him while we
'kuve' await his commands.  Soon he will run Klinzhai, itself!"
 
     Kor bolted upright in fury.  "Silence!  I am still in command
here!  You will do as I say or I will see you stuffed and mounted
on Kirk's ship!"
 
     'I am still in command here', rang in Kaarg's head.  The
Klingon before him had once stood for honour and the might of
Klingzhai.  He had been greatly admired by Kaarg.  Now it was time
for him to die.  Making out as if turning for the door, Kaarg
pulled out a small disruptor.  Kor saw the movement but was too
late to pull out his own.  There was a flash of light then Kor
crumpled to the floor.  He did not scream, nor make any sound. 
This pleased Kaarg, for he had wanted the Supreme Commander to die
like a warrior.  The intercom light went on.  Kaarg went over and
pressed the button.
 
     "Commander--"
 
     It was Kor's security.  They had heard the disruptor fire. 
"This is Kaarg.  Kor is dead.  I am now Supreme Commander.  Do you
understand?"
 
     There was only a moment's hesitation, then came the submissive
reply, "Kai, Supreme Commander Kaarg!"
 
     "Yes", mused Kaarg, "I thought you would."
 
                              * * *
 
     "It's not bad, sir," Marty O'Shean observed, having another
drink.
 
     "Not bad?  Scotch is what Starships run on, lad."
 
     "Now Mr. Scott, there can be nothing smoother than Irish
whisky.  It's the water, you know.  Irish rain is the sweetest on
the whole of the Earth."
 
     Scotty took back his bottle of Scotch whisky, cradling it like
a baby while he staved off a near heart-attack.  With bottle in
hand, he arose carefully and said, "Now, now, I'll excuse your
words because of your youth.  You've tasted the best drink in the
universe, now it's time you saw the best engines in the universe."
 
     Marty burped in discomfort.  Needing the support of the desk,
he pushed himself upwards.  "All right, Mr. Scott.  Let's take a
look at this dinosaur."
 
     The Irish Chief Engineer staggered ungracefully outside the
hall nearly taking out a crewman in the process.  With a deep
Scottish sigh, Scotty turned and held the bottle to the light. 
"Dinosaurs are we?" he grumbled, drank deeply and then smiled. 
Putting the bottle down, he burred distastefully, "All right, let's
show who, who's a dinosaur."

PLEASE NOTE:  THIS IS PART 4--IF YOU MISSED EITHER PARTS 1,2, OR 3,
PLEASE EMAIL ME A MESSAGE AND I'LL SEND YOU THE MISSING PARTS.  THE
ENTIRE IS STORY IS COMPLETE AND IS ABOUT 11 PARTS LONG.
 
 
 
PART 4 OF A GREAT STORY
 
     The cabin door buzzed.  Somehow, Kirk had a feeling it would. 
He put his book down.  He hadn't been able to read anyways. 
"Come."
 
     Inside stepped Varien.
 
     Kirk lifted himself off his bed and put on a face devoid of
emotion.  "Well?"  His voice matched his face.
 
     "I thought we should talk," Varien said softly, glancing about
the quarters.  There were several old-style books, antique sailing
implements...
 
     "We have nothing to talk about," came a sharp reply.
 
     "I think we do."
 
     Kirk put his book down and crossed his arms.  "What do you
want from me, Captain?  Do you want me to come dashing across the
room and give you a big hug?  Then ask 'How I can make up for lost
years?'"
 
     Varien hesitated then said with a slight grin, "That could be
a start."
 
     "You're not funny.  And as far as I'm concerned, you're not my
son."
 
     The words hurt.  "Now look here," Varien demanded, his eyes
blazing.  "I didn't come here to say, gee dear old Dad, let go play
catch and you can tell me a story--"
 
     "Then what did you come here for?"
 
     "Respect.  Captain to Captain."
 
     Kirk's voice lowered, almost to a whisper.  "Why did you take
my name?"
 
     "I had the right.  Like it or not, you are my father."  Varien
stopped to watch the reaction from the words.  If they had bothered
Kirk, he could not tell.  "I assume you don't remember Mom either."
 
     Kirk swallowed.  "Say what you have to say then leave."
 
     Varien came closer to his father, trying to capture his eyes. 
"I will.  Vayenna Dorlane, bar singer from Toronto--Canadian
sector.  Not too smart, but very beautiful.  Falls in love with a
dashing starship Captain named James Tiberius Kirk.  To him, she's
just another conquest, another night he won't be alone."  Varien
stopped for a moment.  He sounded angry and bitter, but he really
didn't mean to be.  Still, James Kirk had it coming.
 
     "She sent you video discs, but I'm sure you never played them. 
But I'll tell you something, Captain, it made no difference to her. 
'Oh, he's too busy on a mission son, we just have to understand.' 
In twenty-seven years, she saw you only three times, but still she
loved you, and she still loves you."
 
     Kirk shuddered.  He felt old, and he felt guilt, guilt he did
not want to feel.  "You don't understand," he began slowly, the
coldness leaving, "I'm a starship Captain..."
 
     Varien smiled.  "I do understand, sir.  I'm a starship Captain
myself."
 
     Kirk turned away and leaned on the bed.  Varien followed. 
"You don't need to feel bad about this, about me.  I took the name
Kirk.  And it was an honour.  You are the greatest Captain that
ever lived.  You've dedicated your life to the service and to your
ship.  I know what that means.  I know what the sacrifice is.  I am
going to have that same life."
 
     Jim Kirk turned to his son.  "But you don't really understand. 
I have given everything to this ship.  I don't think I have
anything else left for another person...for a son..."
 
     The intercom whistled sharply, then Uhura's voice came
through.  She was worried.  "Captain Kirk...and Captain Kirk,
there's a fight down in Engineering.  Captain, it's Scotty...and
the Engineer from the Avenger."
 
     The two Kirks exchange puzzled glances.  "I'm on the way,"
responded the elder one.
 
     It was a crowded scene that greeted the two Captains in the
Engineering room.  Scotty was being held by two engineering techs
while Marty O'Shean lay sprawled on the floor, his lip bleeding.
 
     "Attention!" Kirk snapped.  Everybody in the room stiffened
except for Marty O'Shean, who simply moaned at the words.  Varien
immediately kneeled down to his bruised Engineer.
 
     "Scotty, what happened?" demanded Kirk.
 
     Scotty, seeing his Captain's face, turned his downward.
 
     "Scotty?"
 
     "He, uh, he insulted the Enterprise, sir."
 
     Kirk's eyes rolled to the ceiling.  
     
     Varien had helped his Engineer to his feet.  "He hit me,
Captain," the Irishman mumbled in disbelief.
 
     Varien started to chuckle.  "I should have warned you about
Mr. Scott, Marty.  He's very sensitive about the Enterprise."
 
     Scotty's chin went up into the air at Varien's words of
understanding.  "These young ones, they don't have any respect. 
Cawlll," he grumbled, "telling me my engines should be replaced. 
You should watch how quick dinosaurs can bite, laddie.  There's no
better ship than the Enterprise."
 
     Varien smiled.  To placate the elder engineer he said, "Well,
there is no finer ship for exploration than the Enterprise, but the
Avenger is a true fighting ship with the engines to match.  No ship
can out-manoeuvre her."
 
     Jim Kirk smiled.  "There's a lot more to a ship than just
power, Varien, there's her Captain too.  You'll learn that."
 
     Varien should have been pleased that his idol had actually
addressed him by his first name, but for the moment, he was not
able to focus on the acknowledgement.  The words were too
condescending for his taste.  "Captain," he said, trying to laugh,
"our crew has been specially trained and selected.  Manluk and I
went through the academy together.  There is no finer crew, or
ship, to be found, no disrespect intended.  That's why we were
chosen."
 
     Marty turned to his Captain.  "That's telling him, sir." 
Varien nodded smugly to his Engineer.
 
     "Well, I can see how capable the Avenger's Chief Engineer is
at handling himself," Kirk returned mockingly.  "I sure hope your
ship's engines perform better in a fight than he does."
 
     Scotty chuckled and looked down at the Avenger's Captain and
Engineer as though they had just been able to take their first
step.  For once, it was Varien's face which became a mask devoid of
emotion.  He smiled for a moment, a smile meaning trouble for an
enemy vessel or captain.  A smile that Jim Kirk should have
recognized, for he had used it often enough.
 
     Varien snapped open his communicator.  "Kirk to Avenger."
 
     "Lieutenant Dearla here, sir."
 
     "Lieutenant, please beam myself and Engineer O'Shean aboard. 
Oh, yes, Lieutenant, locate Mr. Manluk and have him beamed aboard
as well."  Varien flipped the communicator back and with self-
satisfaction, smiled again at the Captain of the Enterprise.  The
room shimmered and the two men disappeared.
 
     "Scotty, I think we hurt their feelings," mused Kirk.
 
     "Aye, sir," Scotty agreed, and then murmured, "Irish whisky
better than Scotch--aach!"
 
     Kirk turned to his Chief Engineer.  "Scotty, don't you think
you're too old to be getting into fights?"
 
     Scotty appeared astonished at the remark.  "Sir!" he replied,
and then feigned throwing a punch at his Captain.
 
     Kirk laughed.  "Scotty, I think you should be--"
 
     The ship lurched suddenly leaving everyone in the room to
scramble for balance.  The red alert signal flashed and then the
intercom blinked on.  "Spock to Captain Kirk, please come to the
bridge immediately.  We are under attack."
 
     Kirk's face went white in shock.  Scotty stared at him in
disbelief.  Scrambling, Kirk dashed for the engineering doors and
to the turbo-lift.
 
     "Status, Mr. Sulu," Kirk asked quickly, as he took his chair.
 
     "Deflectors are up and weapons stand ready."
 
     "Spock?"
 
     "It was the Avenger, Captain," the first officer declared
officially.
 
     "Damage?" Kirk inquired with a glare towards the screen.
 
     "None, Captain.  We were hit with one-tenth phaser power. 
Just enough to jolt us, Jim."  A look of amusement fell over the
Vulcan's face.  The attack was predictable, if you knew your Kirks
well.
 
     "So, he wants a fight, does he?  Sulu, if the opportunity
arises, I want plan Sulu Simulation put into effect."
 
     "Captain?" questioned Sulu at the order of an untried battle
strategy.
 
     "Nothing like the real thing to test it out, Mr. Sulu."  Kirk
pressed the intercom button on his chair. "Captain to weapons
control.  I want full phaser command at Mr. Sulu's discretion."
 
     A voice somewhere deep in the ship replied, "Aye, sir."
 
     Kirk pressed the button once again.  "Mr. Scott, prepare your
engines for a set of extraordinary manoeuvres.  Think they can
handle a little strain, Scotty?"
 
     "Aye, Captain, if it's gonna teach those young know-it-alls a
lesson a two, I'll give you warp 15."
 
     Kirk smiled.  He watched Sulu punch in several commands into
navigational control.  Chekov worked silently with him.
 
     "Captain," informed Spock as he viewed his sensor screen, "the
Avenger has powered down her phasers to 1/100 capacity." He looked
up at the command chair.  "Standard mock-battle power, Jim."
 
     "Very good, Mr. Spock.  We'll see just how good this Captain
is."
 
     Spock returned to the sensor screen.  "She's activated her
distortion field and powered up her warp engines."
 
     "Let's see what she'll do, Mr. Spock.  Mr. Sulu, take no
counter action until the Avenger has completed its first run."
 
     "Aye, sir," acknowledged Sulu.  Chekov rubbed his palms
eagerly, waiting for the oncoming battle.
 
     The Avenger pivoted quickly about the stationary Enterprise. 
Then, in diamond fashion, the attack ship blinked in and out of
view, firing at every turn.  Phaser beams splayed about the
Enterprise shields.
 
     "Spock, evaluation."
 
     "Computers read extensive damage to shielding in engineering
and bridge sections.  Had it been full power, the Enterprise would
have lost most of her shielding capacity."  The Vulcan left his
post and went to stand beside the Captain's chair.  "Deadly
accurate, Captain.  A most efficient machine."
 
     "And not a bad Captain," murmured Jim Kirk, almost proudly. 
"Okay Mr. Sulu, let's set up your manoeuvre."
 
     With quick fingering of Sulu's hands, the Enterprise roared to
life.  "Course 763 mark 12," called the Captain.
 
     "763 mark 12," echoed Sulu.
 
     The Avenger followed hungrily.  "Keep our strongest shields to
her," soothed Kirk.  "Now--80 degrees starboard and pivot!"
 
     Before Sulu could complete the manoeuvre, bolts of light
issued from the Avenger.  The screen lit up once more.  Spock was
already evaluating the damage with the computer sensors.  "Damage
to torpedo bays; shields completely inoperative.  Minimal warp
drive capacity.  Open damage to decks six and seven."
 
     Kirk nodded.  The damage was extensive.  "Well, it appears as
though we are beaten, Mr. Spock."
 
     Spock went to stand beside his Captain once more.  "So it
would appear, Jim.  A most effective attack."  This time Spock
smiled fully, almost as if to rub the defeat into his Captain.
 
     "Incoming message, Captain," announced Uhura.
 
     "On the screen."
 
     The stars of the screen melted into Varien's face.  The young
Kirk was doing his best to conceal a smile.  "This is Captain James
Varien Kirk of the U.S.S Avenger.  Our sensors read your ship is
severely damaged, your life support systems on back-up.  I demand
that you surrender your ship and beam your survivors to our brig."
 
     James T. Kirk smiled--dangerously.  "Thank-you, Captain," he
replied with thick courtesy.  "You will give us a minute to abandon
the bridge?"
 
     "You have one minute, Captain, no more."
 
     "I thank-you, sir."  With a stab of the hand, the defeated
Enterprise Captain waved off the screen contact.  Uhura complied
immediately.  "Sulu, program the ship for Simulation Strategy.
Remember, I don't want them destroyed, just completely crippled. 
Spock, we still have phasers?"
 
     "Yes, Captain.  They cannot be recharged once exhausted,
however."
 
     "I think that will be most sufficient.  Sulu?"
 
     "Ready in thirty seconds, Captain."
 
     Kirk clenched his fist and put it to his mouth.  It was only
a mock-battle but still, he hadn't felt this good in years.
 
     "Ready, sir."
 
     "Engage, Mr. Sulu."
 
     At the instant of Kirk's command, the ship stuttered from warp
to a halt, blasting streams of super condensed light energy.  Kirk
was completely disoriented from the phasing in and out of warp and
could only admire Sulu's capacity to function under the brain
pounding conditions.
 
     Three seconds later, the Enterprise came to a full stop having
circumnavigated the Avenger.  "Spock?" Kirk asked, trying to quell
his excitement.
 
     "Even with the Avenger's advanced shielding, she was not able
to withstand Mr. Sulu's unique attack.  In fact, Captain, the
interval between phaser fire was such that it built up a
destructive resonance in the Avenger's shielding much like a
disruptor."
 
     "Damage?"
 
     "The Avenger has been destroyed," the Vulcan announced grimly,
then smiled.  Kirk was about to comment on the recent overt
displays of emotion his first officer was exhibiting when Uhura
interrupted his observations.
 
     "Captain, the Avenger is hailing us."
 
     "On screen, Lieutenant."
 
     Varien's face appeared.  It was filled with awe, complete awe. 
"Captain, I--"
 
     "Captain Kirk," began the elder Kirk smugly, "I believe you do
not exist--your ship has been destroyed!  How is it you are able to
communicate with me?"
 
     Varien looked completely at a loss for words.  Finally, he
half-whispered, "How did you do that?"
 
     "Captain, you have just been treated to the expertise of Mr.
Sulu."  Varien nodded from across the screen as if to say 'I should
have known.'  "Permit me sir," continued James Kirk, "the honour of
coming aboard the Avenger.  I'd like to take a look at this ship of
yours, Varien."
 
     Varien blinked.  "Of course, the honour is ours--whenever you
are ready!"
 
     "Fine.  I'll be over in five minutes.  Kirk out."
 
     The screen vanished into the stars.  "Sulu," crooned Kirk as
he placed a hand onto his helmsman's shoulder, "that was
brilliant."  As an after-thought, he added, "And I'm glad you
destroyed her."
 
     Sulu smiled in reply.  Then a wave a fear fell over him. 
"About Mr. Scott, Captain..."
 
     "I think, Sulu, that Mr. Scott will want to treat you to his
finest Scotch when he finds out what his engines just did.  The
ship is yours Spock."
 
     Spock smiled lightly.  Kirk opened his mouth to say something
but thought the better of it, deciding instead to make for the
turbo-lift.
 
     A full honour guard awaited James T. Kirk aboard the Avenger. 
As he passed by the full-dress uniforms of the officers, their
faces so young, Kirk was struck by the loyalty Varien seemed to
command from his crew.  So inexperienced, these crewmen.  He
wondered how many would survive a full tour of duty--if the Avenger
was allowed one.
 
     Formalities were quickly dispensed and the green crew of the
Avenger went back to their assigned posts, their eyes wide from the
meeting of The James Kirk, the legendary father of their Captain. 
Kirk had never quite got used to being treated as a demi-god,
always feeling uncomfortable shaking so many fresh, sweaty hands. 
The quiet of Varien's quarters would be better, but an unfamiliar
nervousness had risen in his usually iron-cast stomach as he stood
outside the door.  Varien motioned him in.
 
     There were old-style books, several antiques from ships that
sail with the wind, and log tapes, hundreds of log tapes neatly
stacked by the viewer.  Varien's blue eyes twinkled as he watched
his father take in the surroundings.  Hazel eyes turned and met his
own.
 
     "Very interesting," noted Kirk, feeling somewhat at home.  "We
seem to share the same tastes."
 
     Varien smiled.  "I'm glad you approve."  He moved over to an
old astrolabe, the wood carefully coated in plastic preserve. 
"This one is said to come from Horatio Nelson's ship.  You like
Nelson, don't you, Captain?"
 
     Kirk smiled and slowly shifted the instrument out of Varien's
hands.  "I used to read about his battles, his strategies...divide
and conquer."
 
     Varien took up the conversation.  "There is nothing better
than to actually be on the water, the feel of the waves carrying
you up and down, the wind blowing in your face.  You used to go
sailing on Georgian Bay when you were young, didn't you?"
 
     Kirk turned the astrolabe over in his hands, his eyes glued to
the wood.  Varien went over to the viewer and sat down, patiently
awaiting a reply, studying his father in the meanwhile.  What have
those eyes seen...he wondered to himself.
 
     Kirk turned slowly and faced Varien.  "You seem to have the
advantage of knowing quite a bit about me."
 
     Varien waved a hand towards the log tapes.  "It seems half
your life is recorded for all time.  Some of these are even
personal logs..."
 
     "Mr. Spock, no doubt," Kirk said grimly, putting the astrolabe
down.
 
     Seemingly at random, Varien picked up a tape and placed it in
the viewer.  A concerned James Kirk appeared, his face young in
appearance but no less commanding:
 
     Captain's Log:  Stardate 3227.2
 
     Mr. Spock is in sickbay, still suffering the effect of
stylamine gas.  His bravery and courage has saved the Enterprise
and her crew and I personally recommend him for the Medal of
Valour.  The award seems trivial to one who has put the ship and
crew ahead of his own personal safety countless times and it is
only because of his bravery that I am able to submit this log.  I
am grateful and honoured to consider him friend.  Captain out.
     
     Varien amended the log with a personal observation.  "I have
never met a more loyal friend than Mr. Spock."
 
     Kirk did not respond.  Varien continued, clicking off the
viewer, "We met when I was in my second year of Acadamy training. 
It was quite by accident.  He was with S'Manluk."  Varien paused
for a moment when he saw Kirk's face sour.  "I see that you have
found fault with Spock.  And you are probably wondering why he
never told you about me."  Varien stood, placed both hands on the
table and leaned towards Kirk.  "It's because I told him you were
not to know."  He eased back.  "It was, of course, the logical
thing to do."
 
     Kirk shot him a glare at the words.  "Think about it," Varien
shot back. "You already had your family--your ship, your crew. 
Long before I met Spock, I knew that this was true.  Even Grandma
Kirk knew."
 
     "What?"  Kirk's face was incredulous.  "You've met my mother?"
 
     Varien sat back down.  "Yes.  She lives only a few kilometres
away from Mom.  She moved into Aunt Patricia's cottage on Georgian
Bay.  The farm in Iowa was too much for her to handle.  Actually,
her and Mom are quite close.  She understood what it was like to be
married to a man of space--to have two sons following their father,
and she helped me to understand."  Kirk turned away.  Varien
pressed on.  "How much different would it have been if you had
known?  Did it make any difference for you and Sam?  Your father
had a place in the stars, and in some ways, you grew up just like
me.  A visit every year or so--he could never get close to you or
Sam except in a letter.  And what about your other son--David?"
 
     Kirk's emotions were swirling.  So much, so fast--"So you even
know about David?"
 
     "Spock told me."
 
     "Spock," murmured a distraught Kirk.  He moved over to the
chair opposite Varien and slumped down.  For the first time, he
looked old and tired, and alone.
 
     "I'm sure he understood too, if he was anything like you and
me."  Varien's voice was soft and low.  "From what I heard, he
was."
 
     Kirk put his hands to his face and slowly slid them down.  He
looked very, very tired.  "So what do you want, Varien?  You seem
to have all the answers, where do we go from here?"
 
     Varien smiled mischievously.  "Take me sailing."

  IF YOU DON'T KNOW ABOUT JIM'S FATHER, THIS PART WILL GIVE YOU A
LITTLE INSIGHT INTO HIS CONNECTION WITH THE ENTERPRISE AND HER
FIRST CAPTAIN, ROBERT APRIL.
 
 
PART 5
     
 
     The wind was warm and comforting.  The Sea Witch had full sail
and was tacking a course up the lake.  Two men were aboard, and
they worked the ship with quiet precision, needing no words to
appreciate their surroundings.  Each was lost in private thoughts
about boyhood, and the magic of spending a summer on a sparkling
strip of water, the sun glinting rainbows with every wave crest.
 
     As the Sea Witch turned for home, Jim Kirk stole a glance at
Varien, who was already beginning to take in the fore sail.  Space
and the Enterprise were so far away from here, almost as if they
had never existed:  or if both did, they were only ghostly memories
of a glorious time past.  At Kirk's request, Starfleet had granted
them both an indefinite shoreleave, and this was not unexpected. 
He again was assaulted with a diplomatic barrage of the importance
of creating a lasting peace in the galaxy.  'Would he retire
quietly with a pension in some small corner of the universe, his
legend taken away?  Exchange anonymity for the future of untold
generations?--"I need some time, Admiral Stralk...with my family." 
"Of course, Jim, however long you need."  So now he was here, with
his son, guiding the Sea Witch towards the dock.  Yet something in
Stralk's voice worried him.  The admiral was almost glad about the
request for shore leave for his crew.
 
     "Not bad, Pops," Varien teased as he reached out for the front
post.  Clad only in a tee-shirt and shorts, his easy nature
reminded Kirk of his older brother Sam when he was a boy, though
Sam was long dead on Deneva.  He had Sam's blue eyes as well, but
with Sam, one never knew whether those eyes were twinkling with the
thoughts of a devil or a saint.  Often as not, it would be a devil,
as a young Jimmy Kirk would awaken in his sleeping bag to find
himself hanging from a tree, or feel a mass of cold, slimy worms
crawling over his stomach, or sewn in completely... 
 
     "Did you boys have fun?" called an older woman from a chair
near the water.
 
     "You bet, Grandma.  It was a perfect day for sailing."
 
     "Jimmy, you take Varien in and start the barbecue.  Vayenna's
gone to the store for extra food."  Her voice became impish. 
"You'll never guess who's coming to dinner."
 
     Kirk grinned knowingly at his mother.  Her eyes, blue like
Varien's, were still bright and clear, especially remarkable for a
woman who has been through what she has.  A missing husband, a dead
son and daughter-in-law, another son who left her alone so that he
could brave the universe, left her to wonder when some man from
Starfleet would knock on her door to apologize again for the loss
of another loved one.  Now a grandson to follow that same path. 
Looking at her, small and frail in the lounge chair, Jim realized
that she was probably the loneliest of all the Kirks--at least
Varien and he had a ship and a crew.  "Okay, boss," he waved with
a smile.
 
     Varien deftly jumped onto the dock.  "Need a hand, Pops?" he
baited, as he held out a hand across the space of the dock and the
Sea Witch, his blue eyes sparkling devilishly.
 
     Kirk brought out a battle smile.  "Why sure, sonny."  With a
quick thrust, he grabbed Varien's wrist, pushed his foot out
against the dock for leverage, and sent the startled young Kirk
into the water.
 
     "Jimmy!" admonished his Mom lightly.
 
     "Sorry, Ma--don't know my own strength!"
 
     Varien lifted his head out of the water and laughed hard.  "I
should have known..."
 
     Kirk threw him a towel.  "C'mon, kid, they'll be plenty of
time to swim later."
 
     Varien replied with a splash from his hand.
 
                            * * * * *
 
     Everyone had eaten, the barbecue just a small pile of dying
coals.  Spock, not consuming meat, had enjoyed the fruit salad Mrs.
Kirk had made especially for his and S'Manluk.  Everyone else had
gorged themselves on low fat steaks, leaving McCoy to remark how
much the two Vulcans were missing.  A large fire was crackling,
competing with the goldern orange light of the setting sun.  Spock
controlled the conversation, speaking as usual of Vulcan history
and Surak.
 
     "Spock," interrupted McCoy tenderly, "the way you speak of
Surak borders on worship.  Aren't you being a little too
glorifying?"
 
     Spock halted.  "He is the founder of logic and the most
revered of our people."
 
     McCoy, who was sitting in a large wooden chair, was feeling
somewhat combative, especially after having several glasses of his
favorite Kentucky bourbon.  "I don't know, Spock," he grumbled, "a
whole planet of would-be Suraks.  Doesn't make for a fun time to
me."
 
     Spock watched him drink.  "Very well, Doctor, perhaps you
might have a particular subject to put forward."
 
     "Well, Spock, as a matter of fact I do..."
 
     Jim Kirk's mind wandered as he heard McCoy begin a long
history of Spock's displays of emotion on the Enterprise.   His
eyes fell upon Vayenna Doyen, Varien's mother.  With a quick turn
of his head and a smile, he motioned her towards the lake.  Varien
saw him wave to her and felt something stir inside, a good feeling,
as he watched his mother rise and take Kirk's hand.  McCoy noticed
but did not cease his bantering with Spock.
 
     As soon as they could no longer hear the chief surgeon, Kirk
explained softly, "It's such a beautiful sunset, Vayenna, I thought
it such a shame to waste."  
 
     Vayenna eased up beside Kirk and put an arm into his as they
neared the moon-lit water.  "It seems like yesterday, Jim, when I
heard you talk like that."
 
     He smiled.  "I'm glad to be here...and I'm glad you decided to
come."
 
     They walked in silence for several minutes until they reached
the beach at the edge of the lake.  Kirk turned and faced her. 
"Has it been hard, raising Varien on your own?"  There was a tinge
of guilt in his face.
 
     Vayenna turned towards the orange fire near the horizon.  "No,
not really, Jim.  Your mother has helped us both, and Spock.  You
see him, Jim--so much like you, ready to conquer the universe and
make it safe for everyone.  He loves you so much.  You could do no
wrong in his eyes."
 
     "And you?" he wondered, turning her towards him.  Her eyes
were large and moist.  There were wrinkles at the sides of them,
but in the fading sunlight they were difficult to notice.  She was
still slim and still looked very young--still desirable.
 
     "I could love only you, Jim Kirk, regardless of all the other
women you've had...and of course your ship.  I always thought I was
the biggest dreamer in the whole world, but even so, one day I had
hoped you would come back to stay with me."
 
     Strangely, he did not turn away at her words, though she had
more than expected it.  Looking at him carefully, she asked, "I
know what Starfleet wants, Jim.  Are you ready to give up your
Enterprise?"  Her eyes searched his face and saw uncertainty
growing.  "Even if you're not, I'll still be here...waiting."
 
     He hesitated for only a moment and then took her in his arms
and kissed her hard, making love to her on the little strip of
beach by the dock as though it was thirty years ago.  Somewhere in
the stars above, a ship circled in orbit, patiently waiting.
 
                           * * * * *
 
     McCoy was winding up another you-can't-tell-me-that-wasn't-
emotion-Spock story when Kirk and Vayenna finally returned.  The
fire was low, a few burning embers glowing red on their faces. 
Varien was the first to notice their return, and he could readily
discern by the relaxed look on both that something pleasant had
transpired between them.  And they sat very close together, holding
hands.
 
     "Well, Jimmy-boy," McCoy drawled mischievously, "you've been
gone quite awhile.  I wonder what you could have been--"
 
     Spock cleared his throat in interruption, startling McCoy when
he saw the source.  "Why, Spock, that was a human reaction!  You
don't think I'd embarrass Jim, now do ya?"
 
     Spock waved a hand quickly in front of his face.  "It was only
a momentary inhalation of smoke causing me the need to clear my
throat."
 
     Varien reached over and placed a log on the embers.  "I
remember growing up on a lake not to far from here," he related
introspectively, winking at mother.  "There was a girl I used to
see every summer.  What was her name, Mom?"
 
     "Wendy, Wendy Emerson," Vayenna recalled, winking back. 
 
     "Yes, Wendy.  Curly chestnut hair and beautiful eyes--she had
the nicest--"  Varien looked around him, almost expecting someone
else to clear their throat, "smile of any one I ever knew.  And
when she laughed, you thought the secrets of the universe were
about to unfold.  Sometimes I dream of just ordering the Avenger to
slingshot back in time just so I can see her once more."
 
     McCoy looked over at Kirk to see if there was any reaction. 
At another point of time, the irony in Varien's words might have
been too much for him, but the Captain's mind seemed to be far from
past history.  McCoy then looked at Spock as he said, "That's the
gift of emotion, Varien, to be in love, something no Vulcan will
ever know."
 
     "Ahh, yes Doctor, so you have said many times."  Spock nodded
slowly to himself.  "But I have been in love, and I know what it is
to be happy."
 
     S'Manluk regarded Spock curiously.  "Please explain, Mr.
Spock.  Did you allow these emotions to overcome your logic?"
 
     McCoy couldn't have asked the question better, although
S'Manluk's query did not have the obligatory baiting tone McCoy's
would have had.  Spock did not hesitate.  "The specific reference
I was giving, S'Manluk, was while we were investigating Sanderval's
planet.  I was introduced to the effects of a symbiotic organism
which suppressed my Vulcan mastery of emotion and logic.  Yet it is
as I told you, S'Manluk, Vulcans do indeed feel emotion, perhaps
more deeply than humans, nonetheless, we strive not to let it rule
our lives.  But there is no shame in having those emotions."
 
     McCoy shifted his jaw in memory and said softly, almost
apologetically, "You do have a nice smile, Spock, when you want to
use it."
 
     Spock regarded McCoy carefully, the two locked in eye contact. 
There was no expression of hostility in the Doctor's eyes, and
Spock was not bothered by the intimacy of the contact.  Again came
the feeling of friendship without the need of concealment in verbal
insults or criticisms.
 
     Kirk broke the silence.  "Well, it looks as though it's time
to head in."
 
     "Yes," agreed Mrs. Kirk.  She had been strangely silent the
entire evening.  Cheerfully, she added, "And there are plenty of
beds for everyone, so no one need do any beaming anywhere for
tonight."
 
     Kirk went over and slung an arm around his mother's shoulders. 
"Who knows, Ma, maybe before the winter comes, we'll turn the boat
house into a guest room."
 
     Mrs. Kirk laughed.  Spock and McCoy both raised an astonished
eyebrow at their Captain's remark and what it meant.
 
                     **********************
 
     The air was crisp and clean.  The sun was creeping above the
horizon but remained partially hidden by a line of trees.  Jim Kirk
had been up at least an hour, sitting alone in the boat shed in an
upper storage loft, feet dangling in the air.  It had been some
time since there had actually been anything stored in the loft,
regular cottage things like smelly fishing equipment and air
mattresses.  The tackle was long since gone, but the smell of the
prize fish it had hooked had seeped into the wood itself and would
remain there for as long as the shed was standing.  Nothing aroused
his memories more than a smell, especially this one.  Sam and him
arguing over whose fish was bigger, or once, when their Dad had
spent a few days with them, and he had caught a twelve pound
smallmouth.  'Why Jimmy, that fish looks like its big enough to fit
you in its stomach...'  With a creak of a door, Varien appeared
below.
 
     "Hey, watcha doin' up there, cowboy?"
 
     Kirk grunted to himself.  Varien's call was so casual, so boy-
like, he could have been an older brother.  "Come on up, if you're
not too scared of heights, pardner," came a responding taunt.
 
     With the ease of his youth, Varien shimmied up the loft ladder
as if he'd done it a million times before and jumped over by Kirk. 
"Grandma sure looks, good, eh?"
 
     "'Eh?', that sounds like the Canadian in you, Varien."
 
     "Hey, this is my home country.  I grew up here, Iowa-boy."
 
     Kirk grinned.  "It is beautiful here, isn't it?  I remember
Dad building the Sea Witch for Sam and me.  I used to sit right
here and watch him.  What a time we had bringing her out to the
water--she sank within the first five minutes of launch!"  They
both laughed together, Kirk gazing longingly at the floor of the
boat shed where the Sea Witch had been built.
 
     A sad look crossed Varien's face.  "I wish I'd known him. 
Grandma says he was a lot like you, hot-tempered, rash, stubborn,
all wrapped around a good heart."
 
     Kirk nodded.  "That was Dad, all right."
 
     "Whatever happened to him, Jim?  I've done my best to find
out, but no one seems to know, or want to remember."
 
     Kirk became quite solemn.  "He disappeared on an ambassadorial
mission.  They never found him nor a trace of his ship."
 
     "Do you think he might still be alive?  Out there, somewhere?"
 
     Kirk eyed his son carefully.  "If I thought there was even a
remote chance, I would have turned this galaxy upside down looking
for him."
 
     Varien sighed sadly, then turned to Kirk suddenly.  "Do you
know, I heard a rumour about Grandpa.  It was from a old friend of
Robert April's, the first Captain of the Enterprise."
 
     "April," murmured Kirk, "I remember him.  They tried to force
him into retirement.  Because of him, there is no longer any
mandatory age of departure."
 
     "Well, this gentleman says he knew Grandpa, and said that
George Samuel Kirk was the very first, First Officer on board the
Enterprise.  It was on some top secret mission to rescue a colony
ship trapped in an ion storm.  The Enterprise's initial run,
unnofficially.  She didn't even have markings then."
 
     Kirk looked at Varien for a moment, a set of chills running
down his spine.  "Are you sure, Varien?  He wrote to Sam and me
about some mission he went on, but I never dreamed it was the
Enterprise..."
 
     "It seems the Enterprise and the Kirks have had a long history
together."  Varien paused for a moment in thought.  Finally, he
admitted, "It was my dream to take over from you, Dad.  The
Enterprise, flagship of the Federation, captained only by Kirks--
could you imagine the Romulans and Klingons having to forever see
a Kirk captaining the Enterprise?"
 
     Kirk smiled for a moment, then stopped in reflection. 
"Varien," he said slowly, "I like you.  If I could chose the way a
son could turn out, it would be you.  But I want you to be sure
what you're getting into...I want you to hear something my Dad once
wrote to me and Sam.  I'll never forget it:  'Don't love something
that doesn't love you back.'  Lately, it's been running in my
mind."
 
     "Does that mean you, or the Enterprise?" Varien asked quietly. 
"'Cause I can't help not loving you.  And I know that the love
given by a ship is a cold one--that it seems to go only one way
with only the ship taking, but in the end, what that love
translates into is the willingness to give your life so that others
can sleep in peace."
 
     "You sound like McCoy..."
 
     After a moment of silence, Varien asked quietly, "Are you
thinking of giving it up, Dad?"
 
     Kirk rubbed his forehead with a hand.  "Have I given enough,
Varien?"
 
     "More than anyone else ever has.  But whatever you decide,
know that Spock and McCoy, and your mom, and Vayenna and me, we
will always be here."  Smiling smugly, he added, "Greatness
attracts greatness."
 
     Kirk gave him a smile.  Mrs. Kirk and Vayenna peeked into the
boatshed.  "C'mon you two, everyone's waiting for breakfast,"
Mrs. Kirk called.
 
    With a quick slap on his father's shoulder, Varien was up and
heading for the ladder.  "C'mon, Dad, let's eat."  With a roguish
grin, he added, "I still owe you a swim, don't I?"
 
     Breakfast had just finished when Spock's communicator beeped. 
A second before, the room was loud with the competing talk of
arguing voices, like any family after a meal.  A second later all
was quiet.
 
     "Spock here."
 
     "Commander Spock, this is Admiral Barrett.  Please inform
Captain Kirk that he is to immediately return to the Enterprise. 
All shore leave is immediately cancelled for both Enterprise and
Avenger personnel."
 
     "Commander, may I ask why?"
 
     "You'll have your answer once aboard the Enterprise.  There
will be a Priority One communications awaiting.  Barrett out."
 
     McCoy gritted his teeth.  "Damn Starfleet!  First they want
Jim out, and now they have some Priority message and need him to
save the universe one more time."
 
     Kirk had to laugh.  "Well, gentlemen, I don't have to go, do
I?"
 
     "Indeed, none of us have to go, Jim."
 
     "Right, Jim," McCoy added, agreeing with Spock.
 
      Varien reached over to a knapsack and pulled out his
communicator.  "Kirk to Avenger."
 
     "Avenger here, Captain.  What's up?"
 
     "Sorry Briggs, but shoreleave is cancelled effective
immediately.  Recall all personnel and standby to beam up myself
and Mr. S'Manluk."
 
     "You mean Manluk, sir?"
 
     Varien made a mental note to officially log S'Manluk's request
for change of name.  "Yes, Briggs, on my order."  He turned to face
the others as S'Manluk rose automatically to stand by his Captain. 
"Well, gentlemen, whatever you decide, we'll have to do this again. 
Bye, Grandma.  See you soon, Mom.  I love you both.  Energize, Mr.
Briggs."
 
     Kirk saw Vayenna almost reach out to the fading lights in
anguish.  Mrs. Kirk looked on, and understood.  "Well, Jim?" asked
McCoy, knowing the answer.
 
     "We're going back to the ship, my friends."
 
      Vayenna's face showed a quick shadow of dispair.  She turned
to him, regaining composure.  He grinned at her.  "Don't worry,
Vay, I won't let anything happen to him.  It's probably nothing,
anyway.  We'll both be back before you know it, and this time I
think it will be for good."
 
     "I'll be here, Jim, you know that."
 
     Kirk reached out a hand and touched her on the shoulder. 
"C'mon, gentlemen, let's get the ship in order.  Kirk to
Enterprise, three to beam up."  An unfamiliar voice responded with
an 'Aye-sir.'  Obviously it was someone new that had got stuck on
ship's duty while everyone else was enjoying shoreleave.  
     
     Kirk rose followed by Spock and McCoy, the three standing in
an age-old familiar pattern.  There was sadness in his words when
he said, "Good-bye Mom.  Good-bye, Vay."  Spock and McCoy nodded in
farewell.  The energizing lights shone and through the whine, the
two women faintly heard, "I love you both."

NOTE:  THIS IS JUST PART 6
HERE'S PARTS FIVE AND SIX EVERYONE.  I'LL REPOST UP TO SEVEN ON
MONDAY.
 
 
PARTS FIVE AND SIX 
 
     Dunn had the option of speaking directly to Kirk, or pre-
recording the Starfleet directive.  He was tempted to give the
orders in person, but thought better of it.  He didn't feel like
fielding any questions, questions Kirk was bound to have.  Even
Barrett was surprised when he agreed to let the gung-ho Captain in
command.  The Klingons hated him.  The Romulans hated him.  To
Dunn, the irony was inescapable.  War would have to happen, and
chances were Kirk would be right in the middle of it.  Klingon and
the Federation would have a common enemy, and therefore a common
bond.  Just in case, he included the Avenger prototype in the
starship array.  The Klingons would respect it, and the Romulans
would fear it.  He wondered if her Captain was as warlike as the
ship's design.  No doubt Starfleet had chosen someone in the Kirk
mould.  Yes, war was inevitable.
 
 
     The two Kirks, side by side in the Enterprise briefing room,
calmly waited for the computer to decode the Priority One message. 
Finally, after voice code authorization, Admiral Dunn appeared
behind the blue seal of Starfleet.  Jim Kirk was not surprised the
message was pre-recorded.  Dunn, nor any other Starfleet Admiral,
dare not face him in person.  Not after so soon asking to see the
legend of James T. Kirk forgotten.  
 
     "...sector seven where you are to rendezvous with the
Starships Potemkin, Lexington, and Excalibur.  The D-1 prototype
Avenger will accompany the Enterprise as a deterrent to potential
hostilities.  The Klingon Ambassador has assured me that there will
also be three Battlecruisers at your disposal."
 
     A holograph appeared in the centre of the desk.  "This is the
planet Tridare located at the edge of the neutral zone where the
Federation-, Romulan-, and Klingon-claimed space meet.  For the
past ten years, Tridare is where scientists from all three
respective parties could exchange cultural and scientific
information.  There is only one main city, Babylon."
 
     The holograph faded and Admiral Dunn's face appeared once
more.  Kirk had known Dunn when he was a Captain, and not a very
good one at that.  From what he had heard, the man made a worse
Admiral.
 
     "Reports from Babylon state there is a massive Romulan force
present.  Seven state of the art birds-of-prey.  We don't know why
they are there, and if they are using Tridare as a prelude to
invasion.  Regardless, the Federation recognizes this as an
opportunity to cement ties with the Klingon Empire.  While the
Federation would regret if hostilities were to occur, Federation
and Klingon ships fighting side by side would assure peace and co-
operation for both, not to mention assuring Klingon's place as a
full partner in the Federation..."
 
     Jim Kirk turned to his son. "Fighting side by side," he echoed
sceptically.
 
     "It also seems contrary to what the Federation stands for,
Dad.  Since when did we need a war to have peace?"
 
     Kirk gritted his teeth.  "Romulans are ruthless soldiers, but
frankly, I find them more honourable than Klingons.  It doesn't
look like a good trade off."
 
     "...Commander Kaarg.  Utmost co-operation is required with the
Commander, Kirk, I can't stress that enough.  He won't be in charge
of the Federation force, but if he has any worthy suggestions, I
strongly recommend you listen.  The eyes of the Federation and the
Klingon Empire are upon this mission.  I know you'll do your best. 
Good luck, Captain.  Admiral Dunn out."
 
     "So now the Klingon's entry into the Federation seems
dependent on starting hostilities with the Romulans...Varien, I am
really starting not to like the Federation."
 
     Varien shrugged his shoulders.  "Looks like it's time we
informed the crew."
 
     Varien started to rise but Kirk put his hand on the young
Captain's shoulder, gently pushing him back into his seat. 
"Varien," came the words slowly, "I really don't like the idea of
you coming along on this mission."
 
 
     Varien's face immediately turned defensive.  "Wait," his
father said, looking equally defensive, "I don't mean you're not
qualified, you've shown that you are, it's just that you have a
ship still in the testing stage, not to mention the fact that the
Avenger is going to be under the direct scrutiny of both the
Klingons and the Romulans."
 
     Varien nodded, waiting for more.  Kirk continued, "What I want
you to do is stay back, draw as little as possible attention to
your ship as possible.  And by no means engage your distortion
field unless its absolutely necessary.  I don't think it's a good
idea to have you coming, but Starfleet has ordered you into the
response fleet, so I'm sure there is good reason for you to be
here."
 
     "I understand, Captain," Varien returned officially.
 
     Jim Kirk looked at his son.  "I want you to be careful--for
your Mother...and for me.  I don't know what I would--"
 
     Varien cut him off.  He saw the worry, saw how difficult it
was for his father to express his concerns.  "Dad, its okay. 
Whatever happens, I'm where I want to be.  Always remember that. 
I'm just glad I'm with you now...serving together, that's all I
ever wanted when I joined the Academy."
 
     The two men rose together, an unsaid bond between them,
Captain to Captain, and Father to Son.
     
 
 
     There were nine officers in the Enterprise main briefing room. 
At one end of the table sat Varien Kirk surrounded by the two high-
ranking officers of the Avenger, S'Manluk and Lieutenant Dearla. 
At the other, James Kirk, with Spock, McCoy, Sulu, Chekov and
Scotty.  No one was enjoying the Priority One orders.
 
     "Damn, Jim, how much more are you gonna take from Starfleet?" 
McCoy's question was vague enough that only a very few knew what he
was asking.
 
     "Bones, they put me in charge, whatever that means, and I'll
be damned before I start a war.  But if it is a fight the Romulans
are looking for, I won't back away either.  We'll wait until we
reach Tridare to fully assess the situation before deciding."
 
     McCoy nodded, mumbling something that was best kept to
himself.  He knew there was no one he'd rather have than Jim Kirk
in charge.  The question was more to voice his own frustration at
Starfleet for the way they were treating his friend.  The
seriousness of the situation didn't help to relax him either.
     
     Spock played with several tapes between his fingers. 
"Captain, it has been our experience that the Romulans are a people
whose basic precepts are structured around honour and duty. 
Indeed, we both know that several overtures of peace have recently
been made by the Romulan Empire, particularly where Vulcan is
concerned.  For them to begin a war at this juncture seems quite
illogical."
 
     "I know Spock, it doesn't make any sense to me either.  Why
would the Romulans even bother to wait at Tridare?  What could be
so important there?"
 
     "Captain," mentioned Sulu, "they have attacked first before. 
Perhaps they want to test the new design of their warbirds, only
setting us up for a trap this time."
 
     "That's right, Kaptin," followed Chekov.  "From what we know,
the Romulans only attack if they believe they have the upper hand."
 
     Lieutenant Dearla spoke for the first time, and everyone
turned to face the only female of the group.  "I have studied
Romulan culture and I have spent time on Romulus.  I can tell you
that Romulan history with earth precluded any later peaceful
missions.  In the first Romulan/Earth war, neither side was able to
see the other, hence there was a greater terror from the ignorance
of what the attacker might appear to be.  In fact, in Romulan lore,
Earthmen are portrayed as monsters--baby-killers.  From the time of
that war, Romulans have striven to perfect battle technology in
order to protect themselves from the threat of Federation attack. 
Remember, gentlemen, it was us, out of our own fear and lack of
knowledge, that began the first Romulan war."
 
     Kirk looked at the Lieutenant first as a woman.  Long black
hair, pale skin, smooth lips, with eyes of chocolate brown.  But
those eyes were not warm.  They were ice.  Cold, efficient, and
academy trained.  "What's your recommendation then, Lieutenant?  We
have to deal with the situation today, regardless of past wars or
who started them."
 
     Cool eyes stared into his own.  "Simply this, Captain.  Going
to Tridare with a combined force of Federation and Klingon ships is
going to make the Romulans very nervous.  Talk to them, be open
with them, and you will find them to be reasonable people."
 
     Spock nodded.  "I agree, Jim.  Romulans are indeed very
reasonable.  Perhaps in time, they will even re-adapt to the Vulcan
philosophy of logic, peace, and respect for diversity.  We did once
share Vulcan with them."
 
     Kirk pursed his lips in thought then glanced down the table. 
"Varien, what are your thoughts on this?"
 
     "I agree with Lieutenant Dearla, sir.  Leave the battle force
behind and offer them some cake.  There's more than enough universe
to go around."
 
     "Sir," ventured a puzzled S'Manluk to his Captain, "Romulans
do not enjoy Terran cake and in fact detest foods of sweetness.  I
would recommend a meal more desirable to their tastes."
 
     Varien smiled.  "It was a figure of speech, S'Manluk."
 
     S'Manluk raised an eyebrow in response.  "I see."
 
     "So it's agreed," finalized Kirk at the other end of the
table.  "We'll leave the battle contingent outside the Tridare
system.  Mr. Spock and myself will then shuttle to the planet to
show our good intentions and set up a diplomatic discussion.  Are
there any further questions, gentlemen?"
 
     Scotty came through for the first time.  "Uh, sir, are you
forgetting someone?"
 
     "And who would that be, Mr. Scott?"
 
     "The Klingons, sir.  I'm sure they are not gonna sit back and
play fizzbin while you meet with the Romulans."
 
     "Yes, Mr. Scott, you're quite right.  I suppose this Commander
Kaarg will want a piece of the action.  Kirk to bridge."
 
     "Uhura here, sir."
 
     "Let me know when we are within visual contact with any
Klingon battlecruisers."
 
     "Aye, sir."
 
     "Mr. Spock, please inform the Starships Potemkin, Excalibur,
and Lexington of our plans.  Better code it as well.  Once we reach
Tridare, we'll assess the situation further and finalize our plans
with a general meeting."  Kirk eyed everyone around the table.  "I
want no mistakes.  No hostile action is to be taken under any
circumstances.  I want that made clear."  Sighing audibly, the
Captain finished, "As to the Klingons, I'll take care of Commander
Kaarg.  Meeting's adjourned for now, everyone."
  
     Dearla departed for the Avenger, S'Manluk escorting her, while
Chekov and Sulu left for the bridge.  Scotty went to his engines. 
Kirk had asked Varien to stay for a moment, motioning Spock and
McCoy to remain as well.
 
     "Spock, estimated time until we reach the Tridare system."
 
     "Two hours, twenty-seven minutes at present speed of Warp six,
Captain.  Fifteen point three minutes to the Klingon rendezvous."
 
     "Jim," asked a concerned Doctor McCoy, who was also feeling a
bit left out, "are you sure you don't need my company on the
shuttle?"
 
     "No, Bones.  If anything happens, I want you here on the
ship."
 
     'But that's exactly why I want to be with you, if anything
happens...,' McCoy thought.  But he answered, "Sure, Jim."
 
     Four figures strode out of the briefing room heading for the
Captain's quarters.  A young crewwoman nervously came up to Kirk. 
"Here's the reply from the three starships, Captain, sir."
 
     Kirk scanned the response without so much as a look at his
crewmember, his mind formulating possible stratagems to
complications which might arise.  Varien, however, stared openly at
the woman's face, and how tight-fitting her uniform appeared to be.
 
     "Fine, yeoman," Kirk said tersely with a quick initialling of
the report.
 
     Varien's eyes remained transfixed on the crewwoman as she
started down the hall.
 
     "Varien, you don't have to ogle," admonished Kirk as he
observed his son's actions, "it's not becoming of a Captain."
 
     McCoy's mouth dropped.  "Geez, Jim, aren't you being a little
stiff?  Varien is just emulating his father, that's all."
 
     Spock remained coyly silent at the comparison.  "I was never
so obvious as that, Bones," denied Kirk with a finger at Varien,
who was still watching as the crewwoman turned past a corridor.
 
     Varien bounced several times up and down on his toes and then
mumbled, "Uh, excuse me, gentlemen, I believe I know that
girl...Yeoman!"
 
     "Varien, you come back here!  Varien!"  A disapproving James
Kirk shouted to no avail.  Varien had already disappeared down the
corridor in pursuit of the yeoman.
 
     "Whatsamatter, Jimmy, feeling a little old?" teased McCoy. 
"He's just like you when you were his age.  There wasn't a woman
safe within--"
 
     "McCoy," returned Kirk sharply at the needling, "No matter
what you say, I'm still too young to be a grandfather!"
 
     Both McCoy and Spock exchanged bemused glances and then turned
to follow their Captain.
 
 
     The four starships broke out of warp and eased up toward the
Klingon triad.  Kirk, on the Enterprise bridge, had ordered full
stop while Uhura patched in a visual with the lead Klingon vessel. 
Kirk noted it was a young Commander who appeared, and a frown
crossed his face.  All he needed was a glory-hunting Klingon
Captain as an additional problem, and it looked as though this is
exactly what he had on his hands.
 
     "This is Captain James T. Kirk of the U.S.S. Enterprise.  Are
you Commander Kaarg?"
 
     "I am Kaarg, newly appointed Supreme Commander of the Klingon
Empire."
 
     The Klingon commander smiled shiftily.  Like most Klingon
warriors Kirk had dealt with, he was large, swarthy, and seemed
particularly untrustworthy.  No doubt Kor, who had held this post
the last Kirk knew, was dead, and more than likely assassinated by
the ambitious Commander before him.  "On behalf of the United
Federation of Planets, I bid you greetings."  For Kirk, it was a
well-rehearsed line.  He did not think he could say it if he had to
think about it.
 
     Kaarg nodded as if obeisance had just been offered.  "You will
accompany us to Tridare, Kirk.  You and your ships will follow
behind--"
 
     "Commander," interrupted Kirk to the distaste of the Klingon,
"it was my understanding that we would be leading this peaceful
expedition with myself in command.  It has been decided, with your
approval, of course, to leave the starships just outside the
Tridare system while two representatives, myself and Mr. Spock,
shuttle to the planet to see if things can't be settled peacefully. 
Two representatives--perhaps yourself included--can follow us down
to the planet once we make contact."  Kirk waited for a comment.
 
     The Commander nodded, as if he had expected as much from Kirk. 
He condescendingly spat a reply.  "You Earthmen always speak of
peace.  Negotiation.  It is a coward's way.  I have heard so much
of you, Kirk, the great Federation Captain.  Worthy to be a
Klingon, it is said."  Kaarg put a hand to his chest.  "I see the
truth for myself, as I have always known.  Very well, great Kirk,
send your two 'representatives'.  'Discuss'.  I will await your
word--if the Romulans do not decide to destroy you first.  Then we
will see."
 
     Kirk smiled, pleasantly.  "Fine.  We'll finalize our plans
once we hit the Tridare system."
 
    Kaarg's screen went blank as a response, replaced by the three
Klingon vessels.  Kirk sighed audibly then ordered, "Mr. Sulu, get
us to Tridare, best possible speed.  Let's get this over with
before Kaarg decides to start shooting at us instead."
 
     "Best possible speed, sir.  We'll reach the Tridare system in
two hours, six minutes."
 
     "Lieutenant Uhura, notify our fellow starships of our plans. 
Tell them we'll finalize our plans once we are at the Tridare
system.  And could you have, I mean, request, Captain Kirk of the
Avenger to meet me in my quarters.  He's somewhere on the
Enterprise--that is, if he's not too busy."
 
     Uhura smiled.  "Aye, sir."
 
     Spock drifted over before Kirk made it to the turbo-lift. 
"Captain?"
 
     "Yes, Mr. Spock?"
 
     "An observation.  Tridare is a scientific planet.  It has no
defense shielding, no weaponry.  It would be a great loss to the
galaxy should it be damaged in any way."
 
     "I understand, Mr. Spock.  Should things get nasty, we'll try
to pull away from Tridare to avoid injury to the planet and the
populace."
 
     Spock nodded.  "I would also request that you allow me the
company of the Avenger's first officer until arrival."
 
     Kirk turned to face Spock.  "Of course, Spock."  Not realizing
exactly what he was saying, he observed inquisitively, "He seems to
be a bit of a son to you, does he not?"
 
     "I have taken him into our family.  I am his 'moso wan', his
foster father in earth terms."
 
     Kirk eyed his first officer with surprise inducing Spock to
explain further.
 
     "He was without living relations, alone, without direction. 
I quite know what that is like--to be alone.  Indeed, Captain,
while I was genetically engineered, S'Manluk was not.  His birth,
I would say, was miraculous."
 
     "Miraculous?"
 
     "The odds of a non-genetically engineered birth between a
human and a Vulcan are over three billion to one."
 
     Kirk smiled.  "He appears to be a fine Vulcan, Spock."
 
     "Thank you, Captain."  It was the best compliment anyone could
say to Spock regarding S'Manluk.
 
     "And Spock.  You've done a fine job looking after Varien.  I
wanted to say I'm sorry for the way I reacted before."
 
     "Not necessary, Jim.  I understood."
 
     Spock gave him a warm smile which left the Captain of the
Enterprise feeling more a part of the universe than he had since
his childhood; since Sam and since his father.  He had a family
again, a very large and very unique family.
 
     He left Spock off at the transporter deck and made for his
quarters.  Once inside, he punched his recorder and began, 
     "Captain's Personal Log:  Stardate 9400.5
 
     Recent events have delayed my decision on retirement as
requested by Starfleet.  To accept means virtual exile, and yet
with the knowledge of having another son, James Varien Kirk--"
 
     Kirk pressed the pause on the log recorder.  With the touch of
a button, he visualized Varien's service record.  Honours with
everything he did, outstanding commendations, Varien's record read
like a young James T. Kirk's right down to his first assignment as
ensign on board the U.S.S. Farrugut.  He flipped over to another
part of Varien's file.  Access denied with proper identification,
blinked the screen.
 
     "Kirk, James T., Captain U.S.S. Enterprise.  Code Avenger
One."  The screen opened up to a picture of the Avenger and a list
of her crew.  On a certain Vulcan's recommendation, Varien had the
honour of being selected as the Avenger's first Captain.  Not
surprisingly, a half-Vulcan, half-human first officer had also been
selected on Spock's personal recommendation.  Kirk pressed the log
recorder button once more.
 
     "Mr. Spock, First Officer of the Enterprise, the finest in the
Fleet, and my longtime friend, has selected Varien to captain a
new-style Federation ship, The Avenger.  While I still feel the
sting of the death of David Marcus, another son of mine whose
mother was Scientist Carol Marcus, I did not know him in the short
time we had together.  With Varien, I feel I've known him all my
life, and he is more like a brother than a son.  He appears
indestructible, as I once did.  Yet I can't help but feel worried
for his safety.  I have the fear of losing someone that is almost
as close to me as Spock and McCoy.  Given a little longer, Varien
would surely mean even more.  I am so...worried for him, yet I
trust Spock and his judgement with my life.  Therefore, I am left
with no choice then to trust that same judgement with Varien's, as
Spock has done by assigning his adopted son S'Manluk to Varien's
command.  May he have the same luck the Enterprise and her crew
seems to have had.  Kirk out."
 
     With a sigh, Kirk slid back into his chair.  So this is what
it means to be a father, to worry for the safety of a child.  What
Mom must go through--
 
     "Come," Kirk immediately responded to the door buzz.
 
     Varien strode in, two white robes tucked under his arm. 
"Well, howdy, Pops."  He sat down on the bed as if it were home.
 
     Grinning, Kirk said, "I thought you might be too tired to make
it back to your ship with all the exercise you've been getting
lately. "
 
     "Hey," laughed Varien, "I have to keep up the family line." 
Separating one of the robes, he tossed it at Kirk.  "There's
another matter to settle, as well.  I want another chance.  One on
one, in the rec room.  Ke Lei--for the pride of the Avenger."
 
     Kirk smiled in disbelief.  "You can't be serious..."
 
     "What, are ya too old, Jimmy-boy?"  The accent was clearly
Irish.  "Then just think of me as Finnegan--that might change
things."
 
     Kirk glanced at the robe than looked carefully back at Varien. 
"Yes, you would make a good Finnegan.  You can't beat the
Enterprise so you want to fight an old man."
 
     "Oh, I gave strict orders that the next time we battle the
Enterprise..." Varien paused for effect, then snapped, "we take no
prisoners!"
 
     Kirk laughed, rose with the robe, and pushed Varien out the
door.
 
                         * * * * *
 
     "Spock, tell me more of Vulcan."
 
     Spock looked deeply into S'Manluk's eyes of gold.  The young
Vulcan had on a black robe, as did Spock, and both were seated in
the traditional position of Vulcan meditation.  Spock thought for
a moment what it was like to be a Vulcan and never touch the home
world.  "Vulcan is a world of contrast, S'Manluk," he began
reflectively.  "There is the desert, Vulcan's Forge, where every
Vulcan when he is of age earns the right for the kahs-wan, the time
when a Vulcan child is recognized as an adult."  Spock detected a
faint glimmer of dismay in S'Manluk' eyes.  "Yet it is purely
ceremonial.  Its purpose is to allow the individual to find within
himself the seeds of manhood, and turn his back on his time of
youth.  You have surpassed all facets of kahs-wan, S'Manluk, in
your trials of youth.  You have survived what might have driven a
lesser Vulcan mad."
 
     S'Manluk understood and felt comfort in Spock's words.  A
Vulcan, even though he was only half, and he had never touched the
planet of his roots except through Spock's mind.  To never have
been watched by T'Khut, Vulcan's moon of one eye, or felt the sting
of the winds in Vulcan's Forge, the place of harshness where every
Vulcan heart yearned to be, where the very first Vulcans, with
their minds filled with emotion and war, had initially tread after
the great burning.
 
     "There is beauty to be found in everything," continued Spock,
"but no where more so for a Vulcan than the ancient desert about
Mount Selaya.  It is there where kohlinar is found, the finding of
the true self, separated from all emotion.  The finding of the
truth of the One and the All--Nome."  Spock's fingers reached out
to S'Manluk, touching specific nerve points on his smooth, dark
skin.  "Our minds are one...as one we journey into the roots of
Vulcan, to the roots of ourselves..."  Together, they shared the
history of Vulcan, living it as only two half-Terrans could.
 
 
     "Not bad, Junior, not bad at all."  Kirk feinted once more,
but Varien did not shift at the movement.  "Who taught you Ke Lei,
Varien?  He must have been very good."  Kirk circled his opponent
looking for an advantage.  "Very...very...good," he murmured more
to himself.
 
     "It was an old Soltarian master, dear Father.  He was half-
blind, but no man dared challenge him.  He had this one move..." 
Varien crossed his hands over and moved towards Kirk's head.  The
natural reaction to such a move in Ke Lei was to step back and wait
for the attacker to strike.  Then, utilizing the opponent's
momentum against him, the defender was to strike the right shoulder
while placing the right foot out for him to trip over after the
blow.  But as soon as Kirk had moved his leg out and brought his
hand back to strike the oncoming shoulder, Varien ducked, uncrossed
his arms into a surprised and off-balance father's legs, and pulled
back.  The net result was a Starship legend flat on his back, the
wind knocked out of him.
 
     "Score one for the Avenger," shouted Varien, pumping his fist.
 
     Kirk reached out and kicked a leg from underneath Varien who
immediately fell unceremoniously to the mat beside his father.
 
     "Hey, you don't play fair," Varien chided, sidling over to see
Kirk's view of the rec ceiling.
 
     "You should know I hate to lose."
 
     "Yes, I have to remember that...Pops."
 
     "Will you stop calling me Pops, Varien!  You make feel old."
 
     "What would you like then--Captain?"
 
     Kirk quickly flipped Varien onto his backed and grabbed an
arm, pulling it upwards.  "How about Uncle?"
 
     Varien shouted as though in a Klingon mind-sifter.  "Oww, oww,
Pops, you're hurting me...owww!"  
 
     McCoy walked into the rec room, hurrying a bit to see the
source of the commotion.  "Hey, Bones," came a playful call, "you
got any of those old wooden paddles doctors used to use on naughty
kids?"
 
     McCoy chuckled.  "No, I broke the last one on you, Jim."
 
     The two Kirks rose grinning.  The Doctor handed each a towel. 
"You wouldn't think the Enterprise was going out on another save-
the-Federation-mission the way you two are acting."
 
     "C'mon Bones, a little play before the storm to ease the
tension," returned Kirk while wiping off his face.  "We still have
thirty minutes before Tridare.  That's enough to make a pretzel out
of Varien."
 
     Varien forcefully choked.  "A pretzel!  Why I've fought
Tyrrenian Barsk tigers with one hand behind my back, and you think
you're going to make a pretzel out of me?"
 
     Kirk put a hand to his chin.  "A Tyrrenian Barsk
tiger...Bones, didn't we make Spock a pair of ear-warmers out of
one?"
 
     McCoy laughed at the picture.  With his best country drawl, he
commented dryly, "Jim, I'm gonna hafta see if you all have caught
some space sickness--it be a Starfleet first to have one Chief
Medical Officer declare two Captains unfit for command in one
sitting."
 
     With a wink, Kirk said, "Well Varien, I guess its back to
business.  I hope your Chief Med isn't as big a rain cloud as
ours."
 
     "Hmmm, then I think it's time I left."  Varien added hastily
with a wink at McCoy, "I better get back to my ship before I get
thoroughly soaked."  With a quick look to the ceiling to check on
the weather, Varien left McCoy and Kirk to themselves.
 
     "He's quite a boy, Jim."
 
     Kirk nodded and went to sit on a bench in the corner.  McCoy
leaned on the wall nearby.  "Bones, tell me how that kid got to be
Captain of Starfleet's first actual warship?...He seems so young. 
Will he be able to make the right decisions?  Will he know what to
do in a real life and death situation?"
 
     "Jim, you saw how he did against the Enterprise and you've
seen his record.  He's more than capable, I think you know that." 
McCoy edged off the wall and sat down.  "Jim, it sounds like you
have gotten a bit protective of Varien.  Is it because of David--"
 
     Kirk felt a rush of emotion at McCoy's words.  "Dammit, Bones,
no!  David's gone and buried.  But Varien is different."  He felt
strange saying those words--gone and buried.  Has his pain truly
left him?  McCoy had the answer.
 
     "Different because you know him?"  Kirk's face momentarily
winced.  "Jim, this is what being a father is all about.  Caring
about someone...loving them.  It's hard, maybe harder than being
the Captain of the Enterprise."
 
     "Then what do you suggest?"  Kirk's tone was cold, a lot
colder then he meant it to be.
 
     "Treat Varien as you would me or Spock, or any crew member on
the Enterprise.  Care about him, but understand that he has
responsibilities too.  He said the same Starfleet oath that you
did, and he knows the risks.  And I think no one knows those risks
more than you and him."
 
     Kirk turned to his friend, the one who he knew would give him
the best advice in all the universe.  "Bones, do you think I should
retire?"
 
     "I can't answer that for you, Jim.  I will tell you I don't
like the way Starfleet is going about it...more like exile than
retirement.  But if you can sit on the bridge of the Enterprise and
say to yourself 'I can leave here and never regret it', then I
think you have your answer already."
 
     "And what about you, Bones?  Have you thought about getting
out of the service?"
 
     McCoy sat back against the wall.  "I can't Jim, not without
you, not without Spock.  As long as one of you are out here, then
I have to be here too.  And don't think I wouldn't be happy being
a hundred years old and still keeping our pointed-eared friend in
line.  I just can't imagine being anywhere else except with the two
of you.  If it's on the Enterprise, that's fine.  If it's taking
the tonsils out of your grandchildren, then by God, I'll be just as
happy."
 
     The two sat in silence together until Uhura called down to
inform Kirk that the Enterprise was nearing the Tridare system.
 
 
 
     "Status, Mr. Sulu," Kirk inquired naturally as he took his
seat in the Captain's chair.
 
     "We'll be within the Tridare system in one minute, Captain."
 
     Spock left his science post and went to Kirk's side. 
"Captain, the Roylan black hole is near the Tridare system.  With
its near infinite mass, it makes a formidable sensor distorter."
 
     "Understood, Mr. Spock.  It seems we now have a device large
enough for us all, not just the Avenger.  Lt. Uhura, try hailing
one of the Romulan vessels.  See if you can reach their Commander."
 
     "Aye, sir."  Uhura began hailing the space ahead in standard
Romulan.  A light flashed on her board.  "I have ship to ship,
Captain."
 
     Kirk pursed his lips.  "Very good.  On screen, Lieutenant."
 
     The main viewer faded for a moment, then became the distorted
face of a Romulan commander.  Uhura apologized for the effects the
black hole was having on visual communication.  Kirk made the best
of the situation.  "This is James T. Kirk of the Starship
Enterprise representing the United Federation of Planets.  We come
in peace."  He halted for a moment then said, "It has come to our
attention that there is a large Romulan force by the neutral planet
Tridare.  Is there any difficulty and if so, is there any way we
can assist you?"
 
     The screen went sharp for a moment giving both Kirk and the
Romulan clear images of each other.  It quickly distorted but the
Romulan's words could clearly be heard.  "This is Commander Tulak,
of the Romulan Empire.  Greetings Captain Kirk, it is a great
honour to finally meet you.  In response to your question, the only
difficulty we our experiencing is of Federation design."
 
     Confused, Kirk regarded the Romulan with his eyebrows knit. 
"Surely there must be some misunderstanding.  Can we not meet to
discuss the situation?  If not on the Enterprise perhaps at a
neutral site?  To show our peaceful intentions, myself and my first
officer will shuttle to Tridare.  We will be unarmed.  Perhaps
there, we can discuss any misunderstandings."
 
     Tulak seemed to smile through the distortion.  He felt a great
respect for Kirk, but he did not want that respect to interfere
with the safety of his Empire.  Coyly, he replied, "Perhaps."  The
screen went dead.
 
     Kirk muttered to himself, "Well, at least he didn't say no." 
Addressing his communications officer, he directed, "Uhura, inform
all ships to make for the Roylan black hole, keeping it between us
and the Romulan fleet.  Also have the Captains of the Lexington,
Excalibur, Potemkin, and Avenger beam over.  We'll meet in the main
briefing room.  And Lieutenant, invite Commander Kaarg.  I don't
think he'll come but ask anyway."
 
     Uhura nodded.  "Aye sir."
 
     "Kirk to engineering--Scotty?"
 
     "Scott here, sir."
 
     "Scotty, I need you to modify a communicator so that it can
reach the Enterprise from Tridare."  An ordinarily formidable task
for the best of engineers, Kirk was quite at ease with the demand,
especially as it was Scotty he was asking.
 
     "All the way from Tridare?  And with us hovering about a black
hole?"  There was a momentary pause leaving Kirk to smile.  He
could almost here Scotty muttering under his breath.  "It will take
some doing, Captain.  It'll have to be a very tight beam to make
out here.  Even then I can't guarantee if it will have the power to
make it past that beastie of a black hole's gravity."
 
     "Fine, Scotty.  Do the best you can.  See if you can give it
an extra boost, and give Lieutenant Uhura the frequency when you're
finished.  Kirk out.  Mr. Sulu, come with me and Mr. Spock.  Mr.
Chekov, you have the conn."
 
     One by one the Captains of each starship filed in with their
respective first officer.  Jeffrey Lee, of the Lexington, and his
first officer Musar, part Andoran part Tellarite; Susan Fuller of
the Potemkin, and her Vulcan first officer T'lar; Tomas Sandstrom
of the Excalibur, and his first officer Korlak, a Burloin; and
finally James Varien Kirk and his first officer, S'Manluk.
 
     Kirk nodded and exchanged pleasantries with each one. 
Strange, he thought to himself, how young each face appeared to
him.  Where were all the Captains he knew?
 
     "As you have been informed," began Kirk, noting the absence of
Klingons, "Mr. Spock and myself will shuttle down to the Tridare in
an attempt to get all three parties to begin peaceful negotiations. 
We don't know why the Romulans are here, but we do know they have
taken no hostile action whatsoever.  We'll wait until directly
fired upon.  If that occurs, we'll take up Delta formation with
Varien's ship at the centre, the Enterprise in the lead.  The most
important thing is that we don't get separated.  I want a tight
formation--the Romulans are notorious for attacking in force on one
ship.  As to the Klingons, let them handle themselves as much as
possible.  I don't want to lose one of our ships to a Klingon rash
act."
 
     Captain Fuller commented, "It seems strange that the
Federation would have three starships and a war prototype meet up
with three Klingon warships just to start peaceful negotiations. 
Isn't that a little intimidating?"
 
     Kirk turned to Fuller.  He could not just bluntly state that
the Federation wanted a battle to cement ties with the Klingons. 
"I guess it's simply a show of force to ensure the negotiations
remain peaceful."  Every Captain in the room knew that Kirk's
excuse was extremely uncharacteristic of the Federation and its
tenet of peace first and foremost, even at the cost of lives.
 
     "Interesting the Federation would find it necessary to ensure
a peaceful negotiation with a show of force," noted T'lar.
 
     Kirk brought the comments to a halt.  "We're not here to
question Federation reasoning, at least for the moment.  Our first
priority is to avoid war at all costs.  While Mr. Spock and myself
are on Tridare, Lieutenant Sulu with be in charge of the
Enterprise.  My Chief Engineer is modifying a communicator to allow
us direct contact from the planet to the Enterprise.  Let me make
it clear that myself and Mr. Spock are completely expendable.  No
ship is to endanger itself or its crew on our behalf.  There will
be--"
 
     The briefing room doors slid open.  Inside stepped Commander
Kaarg and his first officer.  They immediately found seats on their
own.
 
     "Commander Kaarg," greeted Kirk diplomatically, "I'm glad you
could make it.  As I was saying, there is to be no war here, at all
costs."
 
     Kaarg emitted a low growl, akin to a chuckle for a Klingon. 
"So, that is your 'order' is it Kirk--no war?  I am disappointed,
for there is much glory in war...that is, if you are not a coward. 
But I see you have a new ship with you.  Surely you have not been
making new warships with Romulan help?"  Kaarg scowled suspiciously
at Kirk, waiting for an answer.
 
     'Yes,' thought the Captain of the Enterprise ruefully, "the
Avenger.'  Without pausing, he responded, "It is simply a prototype
sent in case of need."  Almost half-believing it himself, Kirk
added, "If we wanted to keep it a secret, it would not be here,
Kaarg.  It is for defensive purposes only.  We never provoke
attacks, only answer them."  Hopefully that would satisfy the
Klingon's curiosity.  It would have to.
 
     Kaarg nodded as if he understood.  "Defensive only," he
mimicked derisively then turned to his fellow Klingon and
commented, "Why Klingon should want peace with the weak and the
cowardly of the Federation, I do not understand.  They are truly
'kuve'."
 
     "Commander," reasoned Spock, "for you to describe the
Federation as 'weak' and 'cowardly' is incorrect.  All species must
work together to obtain mutual understanding and appreciation for
their existence.  To desire war in this instance is not only
illogical, it would also result in chaos for several hundreds of
year for both Klingon and the Federation."
 
     "Vulcan has long been the puppet of the Federation.  Where are
your strings, Vulcan?  Or have you been pre-programmed?  Do you
also clean the floors?"  Kaarg erupted in deep laughter at his
insult.
 
     "Kaarg!" roared Kirk.  "You are under Federation orders.  If
you do not like that fact, then take your ships back home.  We do
not want war with the Romulans.  Or if you like, once we have
obtained a peaceful understanding, we'll leave and you can face the
seven Romulan warships on your own.  The choice is yours, but until
that time, you will follow my orders.  Is that understood?"
 
     Something in Kirk's stare caused the Klingon to cease his
ridicule.  "Three against seven, it would bring great glory to
Klingon," he replied seriously.  "But we will do it your way for
now, Kirk.  Speak, I will listen."
 
     Kirk nodded.  "Mr. Spock and I will take a shuttle to Tridare. 
You will stay behind the Roylan black hole until you receive word
from us.  Under no circumstances are you to leave your position
from behind the black hole.  The gravitational distortion will not
allow the Romulans to know how many ships we have, nor their exact
location." 
 
     This seemed to be good battle strategy to Kaarg and he nodded
to his fellow Klingon officer.  Kirk wanted the Klingons to stay
put, and he used the reasoning to give himself enough time to
negotiate with the Romulans without Klingon interference.
  
     Kirk finished.  "Once you have received word from us, have two
Klingon representatives shuttle to Tridare to ensure a three-party
negotiation.  Once done, we'll shuttle back to our respective ships
and then return to our respective duties.  Is this agreed, Kaarg?"
 
     The Klingon commander waved his hand as if brushing of a
k'stat insect.  "Agreed, Kirk, you may negotiate to save your
fleshy skins."
  
     The words seemed to come a little too fast, a little too easy. 
Kirk stared right into Kaarg's eyes, letting the silence in the
room thicken.
 
     Kaarg stood abruptly and spat out,  "But know this Earthman,
if there is battle, do not expect Klingon rescue."  He turned to
leave, feeling uncomfortable in the dry air of the Earthship, and
the burning gaze of its Captain.
 
     "If there is battle," echoed Kirk, halting Kaarg in mid-step,
"we will not be the ones needing help."

     HOPEFULLY I'VE GOT THE DESCRIPTION OF THE BLACK HOLE RIGHT. 
I HAD A LITTLE HELP FROM STEPHEN HAWKING.  THE LAST OF THE STORY
WILL BE ON BY THURSDAY AND I'VE REPOSTED THE FIRST FIVE. 
TOMORROW'S PART IS...WELL, YOU'LL SEE.  LOOK FOR PART SIX AS WELL.
P.S., DOES ANYBODY REMEMBER THE NAME OF THE VULCAN FEMALE FROM STAR
TREK VI THAT BETRAYED SPOCK?
 
 
PART7  
 
     The magnificence of the Roylan black hole was laid out before
Kirk and Spock on the port view screen of the shuttle.  Parts of an
interstellar gas cloud were being sucked directly into the event
horizon, its molecules stretched to infinity and then disappearing
forever.  The black hole itself was not visible, but the particles
directly in front of it glowed a faint red, infinitely hot from
being dissected into the very essence of matter.  The funnelling of
the gas cloud into a limitless density made for a spectacular
vision, a brilliant cosmic drain perhaps into another dimension,
perhaps into the ultimate annihilation.
 
      A voyaging ship without the barest medium range sensors would
not be capable of detecting the fore-warning x-ray emissions and
would not ascertain the point of singularity until it was too late. 
The gravitational pull would be so strong, not even warp drive
could give the vessel the power to escape.  The experience of the
Vulcan now at the helm of the shuttle heading into the Tridare
system made the possibility of the Columbia falling into the Roylan
black hole almost incalculable.
 
     "We will reach Tridare in fifteen point six minutes, Captain."
 
     "Fine, Spock.  Let's send another welcome to our Romulan
hosts."  Kirk pushed a sequence of buttons, tying in the universal
translator with communications.  "This is Captain James T. Kirk
aboard the shuttle Columbia. On behalf of the United Federation of
Planets, greetings to the many Romulan vessels in the Tridare
system."  Spock raised an eyebrow at Kirk's tongue-in-cheek humour. 
"We request landing permission on Tridare."  They waited for a
reply.
 
     The main viewer materialized into the bridge of a Romulan
warship.  "This is Commander Tulak of the Romulan Empire. 
Greetings Captain Kirk, from all our welcoming ships."  Kirk shot
a glance at Spock.  The Romulan Commander was almost being tongue-
in-cheek himself.  "And an special greeting to the three Klingon
ships with you, and you new prototype, the Avenger.  Of course you
may land on Tridare, after all, it is a planet shared by three
cultures."
 
     The reply was much better than the one he had received on the
Enterprise.  Kirk noted just how well-informed his Romulan host
was, but did not let the fact interfere with the diplomatic game
they were playing.  "Thank-you, Commander.  I thought it best to
ask seeing such a large Romulan honour guard."  Kirk smiled
courteously, then inquired, "Commander, is there any particular
reason seven Romulan warships are all bunched together in one
system?  I hardly think Tridare is that nice a place for
shoreleave."
 
     The Romulan Commander regarded Kirk curiously.  Perhaps he
does not know.  Perhaps, but this was Kirk.  He would find out soon
enough.  "Captain Kirk, I agree that we should meet on Tridare.  I
believe there are several matters of importance we need to
discuss."
 
     "Well," began Kirk, relieved to hear an opening for a peaceful
dialogue, "since we are in the neighbourhood--"
 
     The Romulan lost his geniality, and became quite formal. 
"Yes, you are.  In two of your earth hours, the main science hall." 
The viewer faded.
 
     Hmmm, mused Kirk, just when I thought we were becoming
friends.  "Mr. Spock, inform the Federation officials on Tridare of
our arrival time."
  
 
     Tridare was a dry, old planet, completely reddish brown even
at the poles.  Most indigenous life lived inside the planet's
surface where vast stores of water collected.  In fact, the entire
planet had no surface water, it having percolated through the thick
dust layers and gathered in large pools in underground lakes and
rivers.  No intelligent life had ever been documented, but there
were rumours of large, carnivorous sand creatures with very sharp
teeth which discouraged any would-be travellers from roaming the
planet.  There were also the weak areas of the crust where one
might fall a mile down into a black pool of water, and no one knew
or wanted to know what interesting life might reside in the dark
liquid.  The only known sentient life was not indigenous and
resided in the one city on Tridare, Babylon.  It was there Spock
landed the shuttle in the Federation terminal, a large dome with
openings for incoming supply ships.
 
     As Kirk stepped out of the shuttle and waited for Spock to
stand down the shuttle, the first thing he noticed was the
temperature of the air.  "It feels like a furnace in here," he
murmured, looking around the large bay.
 
     A nearby terminal worker glanced over and shook his head. 
"You ain't been outside, yet.  I wouldn't stand under the sun for
too long.  Your skin will never be the same."
 
     Kirk undid a few buttons on his uniform as Spock stepped out
of the shuttle.  "It feels quite pleasant here, Captain.  The air
is somewhat reminiscent of Vulcan."
 
     "Mr. Spock, I'm glad you approve.  Now, where is our reception
committee?"  Kirk rubbed his hands together and looked around, but
no one of an official nature could be seen.  "We seem to have been
snubbed," he pronounced glumly, still looking around once more. 
"You're sure you notified the Federation department of our
arrival?"
 
     "Yes, Captain.  Perhaps there has been a mis-communication."
 
     "C'mon, let's find the landlord.  Time until the Romulan
meeting?"
 
     "One hour, thirty-two minutes, seventeen-seconds."
 
     "Right, let's go."
 
     Spying a central door with the blackened notice, "Terminal
Office", they made their way through the loading bays of the port. 
Once through the door and into the small office, they found an
obese, bespectacled man, his bald head shining with grease and
sweat, hunched over a scheduling computer.  He did not move as Kirk
and Spock neared him, his acrid smell offending both their noses.
 
     "Excuse me, I'm Captain--"
 
     "Yea, yea, your ship's ready.  Bay 4."
 
     "No, I'm Captain James T. Kirk of the Starship Enterprise, I'm
here--"
 
     The man still did not take his eyes off the screen.  "I don't
have no starship here.  Check the Rom term."
 
     Kirk let out a sigh and glanced at Spock.  "Where's the main
science hall?"
 
     The fat man ignored him, punching a few buttons on the
computer.  Kirk tried again.  "Look, if you could just tell us
where--"
 
     The man finally turned to face Kirk and Spock, the folds of
his neck jiggling.  With a sharp look, he glared at them both. 
"Hey, I'm no directory, and you better get that Rom out of this bay
before he gets blasted."
 
     Kirk stared at Spock, then his ears.  Of course, he thinks
Spock is a Romulan.  Turning to the fat man, Kirk said coolly,
"Have you ever heard of the Romulan touch of death?  All he has to
do is touch you right--"
 
     The fat man jumped back, away from Kirk and Spock, probably
the fastest he had moved in all his life.  "What do you two want? 
Keep that Rom away--I'm an important man here.  You could start a
war if you hurt me--"
 
     "All we want to know is where the damn science building is!"
shouted Kirk, verbalizing his frustration.
 
     "Science building?  Everything is a science building, this
whole place is for science."
 
     Spock interjected.  "Would you have a main science building?"
 
     "Main--?"
 
     "Dammit, where's the biggest building on the planet?" roared
Kirk.  They had wasted valuable time in the sweating inferno of the
terminal office.
 
     "That would be the Star Hall.  It's five miles that way, but
you can't get there from here."
 
     Spock's eyebrow stirred while Kirk let out a long, slow sigh. 
"Then how do you get there?"
 
     A fat, stubby finger pointed towards the far wall.  "Through
those doors, then to the neutral terminal.  You'll have to take a
grav-taxi."
 
     "Fine, thank-you very much."  Kirk turned to leave then
stopped, lifted his arms and roared like a wild mugati seeing a
juicy meal.  The fat man's arms gyrated furiously, his eyes
bulging.  
 
     Kirk laughed after receiving the desire response.  "Let's go
Mr. Spock.  Obviously we can't get anywhere from here."
 
 
     The two went out the door much to the relief of the large man
inside, and followed the direction in which they had been pointed. 
A door stood out, its windows having long since been rendered
impenetrable to light by the dust of a thousand supply ships. 
Entering, they found themselves inside the main lobby of the
terminal where there were several parties of crews gathered
together in chairs around tables, much like a bar.  The multi-
coloured liquids they were consuming in the bottles set on the
tables completed the effect.
 
     One man glanced up at the out of place Kirk and Spock.  "Hey
lookit, it's a Rom!"
 
     All eyes turned to Spock.  "Hey Rom, can I use your ears to
barbecue my steaks?" called a rather bulky looking man from a
corner.  There was a chorus of laughter inside the lobby.  Spock
was about to engage the man in polite debate over why he would want
to use his ears for such a function when Kirk grabbed his arm and
headed out the door across the lobby.
 
     "Hey Rom," they heard as they neared the door, "is it true you
have a green--"
 
     The door shut closing off the man's question.  They were
outside, a large overhang from the terminal covering them from the
sun.  Kirk gave a pained look at his first officer.  "Spock, your
ears are apparently causing us some difficulty."
 
     "Indeed, Captain.  Vulcan's roots with Romulus."
 
     "Indeed."  While looking around for something to the 'Neutral'
terminal, Kirk heard a voice from the shadows of a far wall.
 
     "You 'Fleeters want to go somewhere?"
 
     Out from the shadowed wall appeared a tall, thin humanoid,
heavily clothed for the climate.  His face was narrow and angular,
his teeth pointed.  Kirk smiled pleasantly, carefully studying the
man.  "Well, we seem to have some recognition at last, Mr. Spock. 
I am Captain James T. Kirk of the Starship Enterprise, and this is
my first officer Mr. Spock."
 
     Kirk waited for the man to reply, but his mouth simply curled
up at the edges.  Kirk decided to go to the direct approach.  "Who
might you be, and how is it you know we're from Starfleet?"
 
     "I am known as Callix," came the even reply.  "Your uniforms
are 'Fleet issue."
 
     "Fine, Mr. Callix.  Would you know where the main science
building is, possibly the Star building?"  Kirk tried to capture
the man's eyes, but a large hat kept them from view.
 
     "Sure, I know the place you want.  I'm a 'Grav operator, I'll
take you.  Thousand credits."
 
     Kirk's mouth dropped.  "A thousand credits?  I could buy a
trip to earth for that price!"
 
     The man started to edge back into the shadows prompting Spock
to say, "Captain, since our time is limited, I suggest we bargain
with the gentleman."
 
     "Look," offered Kirk sounding more reasonable, "we don't have
any money with us, but if you take us to where we want to go, I'll
see that you get your thousand credits."
 
     "I have heard that before," the man said smugly.  With extra
sarcasm, he added, "That's okay 'Captain', I think it is time for
my meal break."
 
     Kirk turned to Spock then back to the man already invisible in
the shadows.  "Let's try it another way.  Maybe we can reach the
Federation representatives directly."  Reaching in a back pocket,
he pulled out his communicator.  "This is James Kirk of the
Starship Enterprise, is there anybody there?"
 
     Music could clearly be heard.
 
     "This Captain James T. Kirk," he shouted into the
communicator, his frustration reaching a boiling point.
 
     Spock noted calmly, "The tight band, Captain, seems to be on
the exact frequency of what I believe to be called 'the local radio
station."
 
     A voice came from the shadows once more.  "Give me that comm
unit and you got a ride."  It was Callix.
 
     "I can't give you my--" started Kirk, then thought again. 
He'd had enough of this planet already. "Fine, Mr. Callix, it's
yours..."  Teeth gleamed in the shadows.  "...once we reach our
destination."
 
     Callix nodded then motioned them to follow.  Around the side
of the terminal, a gleaming anti-gravitational rider stood ready. 
Callix edged into the pilot seat leaving Kirk and Spock to cram
together into the back.  The Grav rider was only a two-seater.
 
     While Callix lowered the darkly tinted hood, Kirk could be
heard mumbling out loud at the discomfort of having to sit with
Spock on his lap.
 
     "...damn planet...nobody knows a damn thing...hot...
communicator..."
 
     "Captain, please," interrupted Spock with obvious discomfit,
"try to control your thoughts.  They are most disturbing."
 
     Kirk, realizing that in such close contact with the Vulcan,
his current reflections could easily be read, tried to think of
more pleasant things.  From the look on Spock's face when they
finally pulled in front of a large, hexagon building, he had little
success.
 
     "Ohh, geez, I don't think I ever felt so good in my life,"
sighed Kirk, as Spock was finally off of him.  He turned to Callix. 
"I thought these things were supposed to give a smooth ride!"
 
     Callix feigned an apology.  "It is an old model, and there are
pockets of air that give it trouble."  He then put out his hand
expectantly.
 
     Kirk gave him a close look.  For a moment, he hesitated. 
Then, reaching slowly into his pocket, he handed over his
communicator.
 
     Callix smiled evilly.  As if to be irritating, he opened the
communicator up, adjusted the gain to full, and blasted off around
a corner to the strains of music.
 
     "My communicator..."
 
     "I believe it is now an old style frequency modulation
receiver, Captain."
 
     "You mean a radio."
 
     "I believe I said that, Captain."
 
     Kirk put a hand to his sore back and started into the
building. Hearing voices, they went through an adjoining lobby into
a large room where three men sat behind a large, black desk, their
faces pictures of despair.
 
     Kirk burst in.  "I am Captain James T. Kirk of the Federation
Starship Enterprise.  This is my first officer Mr. Spock who is a
Vulcan, and not, I repeat, not a Romulan.  I want to know who is in
charge here."
 
     The three exchanged hurried glances.  The one in the centre,
his grey hair straggled about his head, spoke first.  "I am David
Stantial, head administrator for the Federation sector on Tridare. 
Thank God you got here.  We think the Romulans have it."
 
     "Have what?  I don't understand?"  Turning quickly to Spock,
Kirk snapped, "Time?"
 
     "Six minutes, seven seconds."
 
     Kirk went right to the table and faced the three men.  "In six
minutes, there will be two Romulan delegates beaming down.  Between
now and then, I want to know what's happened.  Why are the Romulans
here?"
 
     Stantial exchanged looks with the two beside him and began. 
"Then you don't know?"  Kirk made a face visually saying that was
obvious.  Stantial continued nervously.  "Tridare is a scientific
planet, we're supposed to share knowledge with the Klingons and
Romulans equally.  About a year ago, Professor Kennedy--Scott 
Kennedy--began testing a new theory in gravitational force
centralization.  He worked with a scientist from Romulus." 
Stantial swallowed giving Spock a moment to comment.
 
     "I am familiar with Scott Kennedy's work, Captain.  A
brilliant astro-physicist, his theories are quite remarkable.  His
last scientific logs detail the potential of utilizing the
gravitational force of a large mass and converting its emitting
graviton particles to usable energy.  The technology today makes
the theory quite feasible."
 
     "Yes," nodded Stantial, "but Kennedy under-estimated the
potential.  The force of a medium sized planet's gravity gives a
viable energy source well above break-even, but that power was only
convertible to usable energy on a small scale.  But take something
with infinite mass, with an immeasurable gravimetric field..."
 
     "The black hole," murmured Kirk.
 
     Stantial nodded his head vigorously.  "Yes, the Roylan black
hole.  Kennedy's equations show the power potential is virtually
unlimited.  The only drawback is to build an energy converter
capable enough to survive powering up.  If that is possible, once
operating, it simply draws the unlimited gravity potential of the
black hole to control its own power intake.  Do you realize what
this means?" demanded Stantial, his eyes wide with fear.  "Directly
used, one could move entire planets.  Gravity power conversion
could also create rips in time and space, specifically applied--any
where in the universe."
 
     "Then the Romulans must know about Kennedy's work," stated
Kirk.
 
     "With the presence of seven warships, there can be no
question," observed Spock.
 
     Kirk directed a question back to the administrator.  "Mr.
Stantial, where is Mr. Kennedy?  We need to talk to him."
 
     Stantial swallowed.  "I don't know...no one does.  He's been
missing for weeks.  He was an eccentric, taking trips to the
outlands past Babylon.  Nobody goes there, ever.  We figured he
must have had an accident out there or something."
 
     Kirk nodded as if to say the reply was expected.  "Mr.
Stantial, is there a private room where discussions can be held,
preferably with a security screen?"
 
     "You can used this room, it's as good as any, but you'll find
no security screens anywhere in Babylon.  They would violate the
Tridare treaty of scientific collaboration."
 
     "Of course," responded Kirk, "I should have realized.  Time
Mr. Spock?"
 
     "Any moment, Captain," replied the Vulcan.  On cue, the
Romulan commander Kirk had seen on the screen of the Enterprise
appeared accompanied by a large officer.
 
     "Greetings, Captain, we meet again. this time face to face."
 
     "Commander Tulak," acknowledged Kirk.  He motioned to Stantial
and the two other men to leave.  "I believe we have booked this
room, gentlemen," he said casually.
 
     Stantial exchanged a fearful look at Kirk, avoiding the gaze
of the Romulans as he left.
 
     "Well Captain, shall we be seated?" offered the Romulan.  He
was dressed in gold with a white sash and presented a striking
presence.  The Commander sat down while his companion, dressed in
black with a silver sash, remained standing behind him, his eyes
alert on Kirk and Spock.
 
     "Fine," said Kirk, taking a seat.  "What brings seven Romulan
warships to a harmless scientific planet like Tridare?"
 
     "Come Captain," admonished Tulak, "let's not play games.  You
know of the scientist Kennedy's work as do I."  The Romulan put a
hand to his chin.  "I find it interesting that you remain behind
the black star, you and your ships.  Is it perhaps that you already
have a gravitational converter?  Are you employing it now as we
speak?"
 
     Kirk gave the Commander his most serious face, his tone of
voice matching it.  "The Federation does not build super weapons,
Tulak.  We want peace for all races, not just for humans.  We
established Tridare as a show of our capacity to work with Romulans
and Klingons alike.  I can assure you, if we did have a gravity
converter, it would be used for the benefit of all, not just the
Federation."
 
     Tulak smiled craftily.  "Does Federation gestures of peace
include the building of superior warships?"  Kirk swallowed.  "Yes,
we do know of your ship, the Avenger.  It has a familiar design to
the main body...Romulan, I believe."
 
     Kirk thought of the irony of the situation, and his own
tenuous position in Starfleet.  "Commander, I won't deny that the
Avenger is a ship of war.  But it was built as a result of the
escalation of tensions between the Federation, and Klingon and
Romulus.  If memory serves, the design of your old ships came from
Klingon!"
 
     Tulak almost grimaced.  "We did not know of Klingon treachery
and deceit.  The alliance of Romulus and Klingon was an ill-
conceived one on the part of our Praetor.  But just as we were
deceived by the Klingons, so will you be.  They give no honour to
anyone but themselves and even then, that honour is at the cost of
another's life.  We Romulans have respect for other races Kirk,
especially Vulcan."  The Commander nodded to Spock.  "Humans and
Vulcans have benefited significantly from their alliance.  Perhaps
there is a way for Humans and Romulans."
 
     Spock felt compelled to speak.  "Commander, we have much in
common.  Romulus rejected the philosophy of Vulcan once, but before
that, we were all brothers sharing Vulcan.  There are many roots
upon which could be forged a union which would add greatly to the
Romulan Empire.  Do you not have a saying, Commander, there is much
glory in war, but none compares to the gaining of a trusted
friend?"
 
     The Commander chuckled.  "Yes, you are quite right, Commander
Spock.  You and your Captain are well-known throughout the Romulan
Empire.  We have a great respect for you and your ship, and would
welcome you as friends.  Many would long to hear the tales you must
know.  But we do have a problem.  The gravity equations."
 
     Kirk looked back to the Commander.  I could like this person,
he thought.  "Do you have any suggestions, Tulak?"
 
     "There are three courses, Captain.  One, we fight for the
equations.  Two, we share the equations keeping the balance of
power.  Three, we destroy the information or at least keep it
secret.  Can your Federation be trusted to follow the last path?"
 
     "I've got another wrinkle, Commander," informed Kirk, "there
are three Klingon ships waiting to hear a reply from us."
 
     Tulak's face soured completely.  "It is most unfortunate that
they must be included.  Klingons will desire one thing, the use of
the equations for war.  Their presence will also create
difficulties for us, Captain.  They will not be willing to
negotiate.  The hatred between our races is insurmountable."
 
     Kirk pursed his lips.  "The Federation once thought so, with
both Klingon and Romulus.  You do have scientists here on Tridare,
as does Klingon.  Perhaps we can obtain a far reaching peace for
all parties concerned."  Tulak hesitated.  Kirk pursued.  "There
comes a time when one man can change the destiny of the universe. 
There is plenty of galaxy for us all.  And we can all benefit from
a full co-operation in technology.  Federation advances in--"
 
     "Kirk, I agree.  You need not continue your 'sale' of the
Federation.  I am Tulak, next in line to be Praetor, and with his
age, that will be soon.  Any agreement reached here has the
assurance of full Romulan co-operation."
 
     "And so with myself and the Federation," returned Kirk.
 
     "For one with such honour, I cannot question your word.  You
must be greatly revered in your Federation, Kirk."
 
     Kirk managed a covering smile.  "If you would be so kind,
Commander, as to request the Klingon presence.  I seemed to have
lost my communicator...which was only capable of getting music
anyway."
 
     Tulak smiled.  "That was Callix...one of Romulus'
representatives on Babylon.  The music was the result of a jamming
device from our ship."  Tulak reached into a pocket of his gold
tunic and pulled out a communicator.  "Tight frequency to enable
penetration of the gravitational effects of the black hole.  Very
impressive."
 
     Kirk grinned and took the communicator.  "Kirk to Enterprise."
 
     "Uhura, here sir.  Is everything okay?"
 
     "Fine lieutenant.  Call our Klingon friends and have them
shuttle over to the planet.  We'll meet them in the main science
building," added Kirk with a glint in his eye and no further
elaboration, "Kirk out."

Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!newshost.uwo.ca!uwovax.uwo.ca!35002_4035
From: 35002_4035@uwovax.uwo.ca
Subject: GREAT STORY PART 8
Organization: University of Western Ont, London
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 1993 23:07:04 GMT
Message-ID: <1993Apr20.190704.1@uwovax.uwo.ca>
Sender: news@julian.uwo.ca (USENET News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: hydra.uwo.ca
Lines: 676

WHAT DO YOU GET WHEN YOU MIX ROMULANS, KLINGONS, AND JIM KIRK...
 
...PART 8
 
     Kirk and Spock had just returned from eating a meal ordered
from the science hall cafeteria dispenser, Kirk grumbling about the
lack of choice, when an angry Kaarg burst into the appointed
discussion room.  Thankfully, Tulak was still off in another part
of the building and had not seen the Klingon commander's outburst.
 
     "Kirk," threatened Kaarg, "you have taken long.  What
treachery have you plotted with the Romulan dogs?"
 
     "Commander," replied Kirk diplomatically, "I see you've made
it to our little gathering.  I trust you are unarmed and have come
to negotiate in good faith?"
 
     "I have no time for games, 'Verguul'.  I demand to know what
has been said.  Why are Romulan ships here?  What have you learned,
Kirk?"
 
     Kirk glared at the Klingon.  "Sit down, Kaarg.  I've no time
for your pettiness towards the Romulans.  Whatever has happened
between your two peoples, I want it left out of these discussions. 
Is that understood?"
 
     Kaarg said nothing.  Kirk continued, "I suggest you sit down,
Commander.  We have a lot of things to discuss.  But if you're not
in the mood to talk with honour, then leave now.  Do one or the
other, but if you stay, it will be in the spirit of goodwill."
 
     Kaarg stood silent, debating within, then motioned to his
second to sit.  Taking a seat himself, he said dramatically, "Very
well, Kirk.  Again, I will listen.  Then I will decide what action
the Klingon Empire will take."
 
     Kirk looked to Spock.  The Vulcan's face was clearly
concerned, but he was also curious to see what direction the
discussions would take once the Romulans returned.  Spock also
knew, from many past experiences, if one man could reconcile three
warring races, that man was Jim Kirk.
 
     "Kaarg," began Kirk slowly. trying to explain with empathy,
"the Romulans are here because they are worried about a discovery
one of our scientists made."  Spock's eyebrow rose while Kaarg
began to take a keen interest.
 
     "What discovery, Kirk?" asked the Klingon as politely as a
Klingon could.
 
     "A way to utilize gravimetric fields, converting them into a
source of power."
 
     Kaarg and his second exchanged a quick barrage of words in
Klingonaase.  Kaarg turned back to Kirk, forgetting for the moment
his dislike for the human.  "This must be a powerful weapon, Kirk,
for the Romulans to send seven warships.  Have they this weapon?"
 
     "No," replied Kirk sternly, "they do not.  No one has as yet." 
Kaarg's dark eyes lit up in thought.  Kirk saw what the Commander
was thinking and said, "Kaarg, do not misunderstand.  This should
not be considered a weapon.  It is for the development of planets
which could not be colonized before.  Or the saving of worlds which
might otherwise die.  We must share this knowledge with all races,
Kaarg.  It cannot be used as a weapon."
 
     Kaarg laughed from his gut.  "Earthmen are weak, afraid to use
power.  They are not fit to join Klingon in battle.  While Romulans
have proved to be treacherous dogs, they know when to strike, when
to take the advantage.  That is why they are here in such force. 
They mean to take this weapon and destroy Klingzhai!"
 
     Kaarg's second let loose a guttural of language, obviously he
was in agreement with his Commander.  Sharp words came from the
door of the room.  "You see Kirk, this is the race you wish to have
an alliance with."  It was Tulak.
 
     Kaarg turned and saw the Romulan commander.  "Conspiracy!" he
shouted to his second and rose.
 
     Kirk stood, slamming his fist into the table.  "There's no
conspiracy!"  His voice was commanding and caused all parties to
stop and turned their eyes on him.  "Everyone, sit down.  Nothing
will be gained if we end up killing one another."
 
     Tulak smiled craftily, making sure Kaarg noticed.  He designed
to keep the Klingon guessing as to how much, if at all, he and Kirk
had joined together.  "The Captain is right, as usual.  We must sit
and discuss.  There is much to gain or lose for each Empire."
 
     Kaarg waited until Tulak sat, his Romulan guard standing
behind.  The Klingon's blood was rushing, his every instinct told
him to leap into battle, but he waited.  If the Federation and the
Romulan Empire had formed an alliance, he must see that the home
world be informed of this new treason.
 
     Kirk took the initiative as moderator, introducing the pair. 
"Commander Kaarg, Commander Tulak."
 
     Both of their faces caught a look of disgust.  Tulak spoke
next, addressing Kaarg but looking only at Kirk.  "The Klingons are
mistaken about our desires.  Had we wanted this 'weapon of war', we
would have taken it by now.  But we delayed until representatives
from the Federation worlds came.  We wish only to be satisfied that
the use of the gravity equations are not for war against the
Romulan Empire."
 
     "Lying dog!" growled Kaarg.  "You were not able to discover
the weapon's whereabouts.  You try to trick us into giving you its
location!"
 
     Tulak turned to Kaarg, regarding him coldly.  "That is not
logical.  You do not have this weapon, nor does one exist on a
usable scale.  You are here because we allowed Babylon to call you. 
Perhaps that was a mistake in judgement."
 
     "Now listen, both of you," injected Kirk before things got too
heated.  "This planet was designed for the benefit of three races. 
Scientists from all three worlds are here in an effort to help our
worlds, not destroy them."
 
     Spock spoke for the first time.  "Indeed, gentlemen, we do not
know for certain the gravity equations will hold for anything other
than small scale use.  This argument over their applicability as a
design for an instrument of war may be completely unfounded."
 
     This seemed to settle both Kaarg and Tulak.  Kirk pressed on
from Spock's words.  "There, you see gentlemen, what's the sense of
risking a war for an untested set of equations?"  He smiled
amicably.  "Why don't we set up a tri-party system, with chosen
scientists from Babylon, to supervise further development, if any,
of the gravity equations for peaceful use?"  Kirk had them both
now, and he was enjoying his lecture.  "Each world will be kept
informed of the progress simultaneously.  The Federation is a vast
collection of races from all over the galaxy, including Klingon. 
All benefit from the others."  Half joking, he said, "One day, even
Klingon and Romulan will sit down together in friendship, as they
did once before."
 
     Kaarg's eyes lit up once more.  "Never!  We will never allow
these scavenging cowards to sit with even the unworthiest of
Klingons."
 
     Tulak smacked his lips at the comment.  "Captain, why does the
Federation allow such a dishonourable people a place in their
alliance?  They are mad hounds ready to attack at a moment's
advantage, even upon themselves."  Tulak stared right into Kaarg's
eyes as if he knew Kaarg had personally murdered his predecessor,
Kor.
 
     Kaarg could not withstand his fury at the insult.  Taking out
a dagger from within an inner pocket, he flung it at Tulak's head. 
The Romulan commander ducked, easily avoiding the missile.  His
companion, who had been standing behind him, took the knife in the
centre of his chest.
 
     Tulak leapt up to his fallen guard.  "You see, Kirk," he spat
viciously, "never trust a Klingon."  He pressed a signalling device
within his vest, and seconds later disappeared in a shimmer of
light.
 
     Kaarg laughed.  "Coward!" he shouted into the light.  "Run, 
we will find you in space."
 
     Kirk turned to Kaarg, his face livid.  "Damn you, do you know
what you've done, Kaarg?  You've started a war!"
 
     Kaarg laughed again.  "I did not come here unprepared, Kirk. 
My cloaked ship is close, within transporter range.  I knew the
Romulans would not attack us, at least while you remained on this
planet, so I brought my ship into orbit.  Now there shall be the
glorious battle for the galaxy every Klingon has long hoped for. 
The Federation will side with us of course, until the Romulan dogs
are beaten.  Then we shall destroy the Federation and become the
rightful masters of all."  He pulled out a communicator and called
to his ship.  Even in the light of the transporter beam, Kirk could
hear his laugh.
 
 
                             * * * * *
     
 
     "The Romulans are attacking the Klingon vessel!"
 
     Sulu shot Chekov a look of disbelief.  "Are you sure, Pav?"
 
     Chekov turned from the science post after checking again. 
"There's no mistake, Mr. Sulu, they should be within visual now."
 
     "Sulu, there's an incoming message from the Klingon flag ship. 
It's commander Kaarg."
 
     "Put it on the screen, Uhura."
 
     The starfield faded into Kaarg's face.  "Enterprise, this is
Commander Kaarg.  Your Captain has been stranded on the planet.  He
may be dead.  The Romulans have set a trap.  They had no intention
to negotiate.  We must attack now!"  Kaarg ended the transmission
without allowing Sulu to reply, to ask what happened.
 
     Concern was on every face, the air tense on the bridge.  "Go
to red alert.  All hands, red alert.  Shields to maximum.  Uhura,
inform the other Captains what has happened.  Tell them not to fire
unless fired upon."  Sulu swallowed nervously, wishing Kirk and
Spock were here.  But they weren't and he couldn't risk the ship to
find them, that would be disobeying the Captain's direct orders. 
"Mr. Chekov, tactical station.  Helm, come about the black hole. 
Take us in towards the Klingon ship.  If the Romulans continue to
attack, we shall be forced to engage them."
 
     "Mr. Sulu," exclaimed Chekov from the tactical post, "this is
war!"  Sulu gave him a return look, one they shared many times as
helmsman and navigator.  'I know friend', it said.
 
     Aboard the Avenger, a large, black Vulcan confirmed the
Enterprise report.  "They are indeed attacking the Klingon vessel."
 
     Varien swore under his breath.  What could have happened down
on the planet?  His communications officer reported an incoming
message from the Enterprise.  "Enterprise to all ships.  Red alert. 
Red alert.  Do not engage Romulan vessels until ordered to do so. 
Maintain full alert and be careful.  Enterprise out."
 
     "What's going on out there," Varien said aloud to no one. 
"All hands, red alert.  Prepare all weapons, and stand by.  Shields
to full, Lieutenant."
 
     "Aye, sir," replied Dearla coolly.
 
     The Avenger's Captain pushed an intercom button on the side of
his command chair.  "Marty, put the distortion field back on line."
 
     On the view screen, the Enterprise began to manoeuvre into the
Tridare system towards the Klingon vessel.  "Follow her helm, but
keep a good distance," directed Sulu.
 
     The Avenger's impulse engines glowed to life as she slid past
the Roylan black hole and followed the flagship into the Tridare
system.
 
 
     Aboard the Enterprise, Uhura was desperately trying to contact
the Romulans.  "Romulan vessel, please come in."  Photon shots flew
out of the attacking Romulan vessel once more hitting the Klingon
ship directly.  Uhura looked to Sulu and shook her head.
 
     Sulu pressed a button on the conn chair.  "This is Commander
Sulu to attacking Romulan vessel.  Please disengage immediately and
explain your actions."
 
     While Sulu waited, Chekov came in with a tactical of the
Klingon vessel.  "Number four shield's down, Mr. Sulu.  She's
beginning to overload on shields one to three."
 
     Sulu waited a moment longer for a response from the attackers. 
None came.  "Take a shot across the Romulan bow, Mr. Staler."  The
young ensign on Chekov's left fingered the phaser control producing
two beams between the Romulan and Klingon vessels.  The Romulan
cloaked and disappeared.
 
     "Sensors, Mr. Chekov?" asked Sulu calmly.
 
     "No trace, sir."
 
     Immediately, two Klingon vessels uncloaked and fired into the
projected heading of the Romulan vessel.  Most of the disrupting
phasers carried through into space, but one shot struck the Romulan
ship causing it to become momentarily visible.  Four Romulan ships
appeared in a circle about the Enterprise and the three Klingon
warships.  Empty space became charged with disruptors and torpedoes
with seven ships firing simultaneously, the Enterprise caught in
the middle.
 
 
                           * * * * *
 
 
     "Dammit, Spock, we've got to get up there."  Desperation was
evident in Kirk's voice, his brow knit in worry.
 
     Spock fingered the controls of an anti-grav rider, bringing it
full into life.  With his Vulcan memory, he easily guided the rider
back to the Federation terminal, stopping directly in front of the
doors where they first met Callix.  Kirk jumped out and ran through
them.  There were no laughing cargo crews to be found in the lobby
now.  It was clear and quiet.  Obviously the men had found out
about the Romulan contingent near Tridare, or worse, there was a
war going on above them, and they had left for safer parts of the
planet.
 
     The emptiness of the bay fuelled Kirk's concerns.  There was
only the Enterprise shuttle Columbia.  "Let's get out of here,
Spock," he shouted to his Vulcan friend as the shuttle doors
opened.
 
 
                             * * * * *
 
 
     "Evasive action, now!" ordered Sulu.  He had to get the
Enterprise some manoeuvring room and out of the deadly fire of the
Romulan ships.  "Damage?" he barked to Chekov.
 
     "All shields are down, Mr. Sulu, and we won't have them until
we get the warp drive back on line.  Even so we were very lucky." 
Their luck was graphically evident.  One of the Klingon vessel's
engine nacelles had been cleanly sheared off, the point of
amputation sparkling with uncontrolled energy.  One Romulan ship
had taken severe hits and was veering off, its hull having been
breached in several places.
 
     Scotty called up from Engineering, his voice bristling. 
"Sulu, what's happening?  We must have taken torpedoes at blank
point!"
 
     "We've got a war up here, Mr. Scott.  For some reason the
Romulans have attacked, and we have no choice now but to fight
back."
 
     "What about the Captain, Sulu?"  Scotty's voice was clearly
alarmed.
 
     "I don't know, Scotty, but we better have his ship in order
when he gets back.  I'd rather face the Romulans if it isn't."
 
     Scotty almost chuckled.  "Right, Mr. Sulu.  At least he knows
he left the Enterprise in good hands.  Scott out."
 
     The confidence Scotty showed in him made Sulu feel proud. 
"Uhura, patch me in to all our neighbours."  Uhura's fingers played
over some buttons and nodded to Sulu.  On the screen, the damaged
Klingon vessel burst into a blinding light having taken another
photon from a Romulan ship.  After the glow faded, all that was
left was a few large pieces of space debris.  "This is Commander
Sulu of the Enterprise.  All ships to battle formation.  Attack the
Romulans at will.  Sulu out."
 
                               * * * * *
 
 
     The Columbia eased out of the landing bay and headed for the
reddish sky.  Kirk was furiously working over the shuttle's limited
sensors in an attempt to discover what was occurring out in space. 
"Orbit in one minute, Captain."
 
     "Good, Spock.  Maintain orbit until we find out what's going
on out there," ordered Kirk.
 
     "Captain, I am picking up numerous bursts of communications,"
notified Spock.
 
     "Can you tie us in to the Enterprise?"
 
     Spock adjusted several dials.  There was a burst of static. 
"...battle formation.  Attack the Romulans..."  The transmission
faded into static.
 
     "Spock, that was Sulu's voice!  Damn, they're attacking the
Romulans--Spock, we've got to get out there!"  Kirk's voice was
urgent, emotional.
 
     "Jim," answered Spock slowly, "we would only make things
worse.  The Enterprise won't be able to drop its shields to enable
us to enter the landing bay without risking serious damage.  I
suggest we remain in orbit and try to contact the ship.  The
logical course is to gain as much knowledge as possible from here."
 
     Kirk's fists shook with fury, not at Spock for he knew the
Vulcan was right, but at his frustrating incapacity.  He fingered
the sensor dials once more while Spock attempted to penetrate the
static and contact the Enterprise.
 
 
 
     The Potemkin fired first, after seeing a Romulan decloak and
shoot disruptors upon the Excalibur.  Two more Romulans decloaked
and spurted disruptors on the Potemkin.  Captain Fuller shook under
the double blasts and ordered the Potemkin into evasive manoeuvres. 
The two Romulan ships continued to pursue, firing in unison. 
Captain Sandstrom, his forward shields on the Excalibur overloaded,
ordered a parallel course to the Romulan pursuers, firing starboard
phasers at both ships.  As the two returned fire, aft torpedo bays
on the Potemkin lit up sending photon shots at the Romulans.  Both
were direct hits, sending one vessel spiralling away.  The other
Romulan fired again, first taking out the shields, then putting the
Potemkin in complete darkness, disabled and vulnerable, her Captain
dead.
 
     Jeffrey Lee on the Lexington saw the Romulan warbird coming in
for the kill on the Potemkin.  Simultaneous bursts of phasers and
photon blasts erupted from his weapons bay, hitting the Romulan
ship full in the engines, blasting the nacelles into debris.  With
only its momentum to propel it through frictionless space, the
warbird fell directly into the nearby Excalibur.  Tomas Sandstrom
saw the main viewer fill immediately with the greenish hue of the
Romulan warship, and knew a collision was imminent.  Death was a
second away to the Excalibur, but it was a tribute to the bridge
crew that no one screamed before that death.  Both ships exploded
in a brilliant flash of white light sending an expanding ball of
debris into space.
 
     Just as the bright luminescence of the explosion was clearing,
the emergency lights aboard the Potemkin came on.  T'Lar sat in the
Captain's chair, her uniform splattered with the red blood of her
dead Captain, mixed with the green of her own.  Tactical showed
structural damage to the Potemkin mainly in the bridge section, the
rest of the ship experienced a number of overloaded systems which
had left the engineering crews scrambling to bypass the damaged
circuits.  All weapon's systems were functional, and forward
shields were at twenty percent and climbing.
 
     The Avenger was at optimal weapon's capacity, the distortion
field in full operation.  The Potemkin, Lexington, and Excalibur
had engaged three Romulan vessels while Varien had ordered the
Avenger to move in near the damaged Enterprise.  Two Klingon ships
had been destroyed, and one Romulan.  After the initial engagement,
the lone surviving Klingon had moved off, finally cloaking after a
minute of repairing the warp drive to nominal operation.  The three
warbirds also veered off, one of them cloaking out, the others
having sustained too much damage to power into invisibility.
 
     "Enterprise," called Varien, "this is the Avenger.  Can you
give me a status report...how are you, Mr. Sulu?"
 
     Sulu appeared through a thin smoke of burned out circuits. 
"Enterprise here, Varien.  Our shields are down, estimated ten
minutes before warp drive is back on line.  Scotty's pretty busy.
but we came off lucky.  Those disruptors pack quite a punch."
 
     Varien sighed in relief.  "Understood, Enterprise.  We will
stand guard till then.  Kirk out."
 
     The screen faded into the majestic Enterprise.  Damn, Varien
swore to himself, James T. Kirk should be on that bridge.  He
turned to his first officer.  "Mr. S'Manluk, let me know the
instant you detect an ionization trail.  I want to know where the
Romulan is before he materializes to fire.  Lieutenant Manson, keep
your fingers on the phasers.  Target Romulan weapons areas."
 
     "Aye, sir."
 
     Varien detected a tinge of anxiety in his weapons officer's
voice.  "Everybody, I know things are tense, but if we maintain our
concentration on our duties, everything will turn out just fine. 
Don't forget we're the best, that's why we're here."  All eyes were
on Varien, and he smiled warmly at their stare.  "We've got a good
ship and crew, let's do ourselves proud."
 
     'And one hell of a Captain,' thought Lieutenant Dearla to
herself as the tension on the bridge dispersed completely after
seeing Varien's confident smile.
 
     "Captain," reported S'Manluk seconds later, "the two Romulans
have cloaked out and are veering off."
 
     "It seems they have able repair crews aboard.  Stay ready, we
should see something soon."  Each member on the bridge returned
their attention to their stations.  Nervousness came once more, but
it was from waiting, not from a lack of confidence.
 
     They did not have to wait long.  S'Manluk's deep voice rang
out.  "Captain, I read two separate ionization trails.  Courses 124
mark 16, and 975 mark 26."
 
     "Project course and fire," Varien commanded.  High powered
phasers shot out from opposite sides of the Avenger.  They stopped
abruptly in empty space which then materialized into two Romulan
warbirds.  Severe damage to both was evident by the fact that they
had both stopped dead in space.  "Helm, take us in an elliptical
intersect course with both.  Stand by photon torpedoes."
 
     "Course laid in," responded Lt. Dearla an instant later.
 
     "Torpedoes ready," called Manson.
 
     "Fire when weapons area targeted," ordered Varien.
 
     The Avenger swooped onto the first bird of prey which had
still been reeling from the unexpected phaser attack.  Two deadly
points of light glided out of the Avenger and hit the Romulan ship.
 
     Varien turned to S'Manluk as the Avenger approached the next
Romulan.  "Direct hit in disruptor bays, violations in several
areas of the outer hull."
 
     Varien nodded.  On the screen, the second Romulan ship began
to slowly move off.  "Compensate course," ordered Varien, although
Dearla had began to do so before he spoke.
 
     The Avenger emitted two more points of light, S'Manluk echoing
his first damage report.
 
     "Excellent, Mr. Manson," commended Varien to his weapons
officer.  Manson nodded back with a slight grin.
 
     "Take us back to the Enterprise, Lieutenant Dearla."
 
     "Aye, Captain."
 
     As Dearla obeyed the order, a corner of the screen lit up in
a small nova.  "S'Manluk?" asked Varien, biting his lip.
 
     S'Manluk adjusted his sensors.  "We have just witnessed the
destruction of two ships, Captain.  One Romulan, one Federation."
 
     Varien stared at the screen and felt a lump in his throat. 
"Lt. Dearla--"
 
     "Aye, Captain."  The Avenger moved in towards the source of
the light.  Two Romulan ships were trailing away from the
Lexington.  The Potemkin sat motionless in space while the
Excalibur was no where to be seen.
 
     "S'Manluk, scan the Potemkin," Varien ordered softly.  "How
bad?"
 
     S'Manluk scanned momentarily then turned to Varien.  "Shields
at forty-percent, warp drive nominal.  Extensive damage to the
bridge area."
 
     "Get me Captain Fuller," Varien directed his communications
officer.  A smoking bridge appeared, a large section of casting
lying beside the Captain's chair, a chair which First Officer T'Lar
occupied.
 
     From the graveness of her Vulcan face, Varien knew Captain
Fuller was severely injured if not dead.  "Status, Commander?"
 
     T'Lar answered through a scramble of voices with typical
Vulcan control.  "Captain Fuller has been killed.  Several bridge
personnel also sustained injury.  Tactical indicates warp engines
are now operational."
 
     Varien nodded.  "I'm sorry about Captain Fuller.  I know she
was a good Captain."
 
     T'Lar's eyebrow rose as if she were surprised at Varien's
comment.  A voice called out to her, causing her to snap out
several commands.  "Captain Kirk, we have detected two Romulan
ships closing.  Obviously they are not at full power capacity or
they would be cloaked."
 
     "Confirmed," S'Manluk said.
 
     "Do you need any help, Commander?" Varien asked, meaning to
keep the Avenger nearby until the Potemkin was fully operational.
 
     "This is not necessary," T'Lar responded.  "Warp drive is
restored."
 
     Varien nodded.  "Fine.  We'll handle the two Romulans.  I
suggest you stay with the Enterprise until she has been repaired. 
Kirk out."
 
     The Potemkin powered off towards the Enterprise leaving the
Avenger to fight the incoming Romulans.  "Let's move towards them,"
Varien said, "I don't want to give them a stationary target." 
Almost immediately after his order, the Romulans disappeared.
 
     "So they weren't as damaged as it seemed.  S'Manluk, any
reading?" Varien queried, looking at his first officer.
 
     S'Manluk gazed deeply into the sensor screen.  "None, sir. 
Space debris is interfering with the sensors."
 
     Varien shifted back to the front screen.  "Where's the
Lexington?"
 
     "Twenty-seven mark 14."
 
     "Helm, let's see if she needs some help."  Under Lt. Dearla's
guidance, the Avenger shot into space and then slowed to a parallel
course beside the Lexington.
 
     "Ship to ship," ordered Varien.
 
     Captain Lee appeared momentarily on the forward scanners. 
"Captain Kirk, we were just heading back to the Enterprise.  We
were unable to catch the two Romulans.  The Excalibur has been
destroyed along with a Romulan warbird."
 
     Varien grimaced and replied, "Our sensors picked it up.  We've
disabled two Romulans.  Two Klingon ships have been destroyed and
with them, another Romulan.  I think there might be three out there
still capable of battle--"
 
     "Captain," called S'Manluk forcefully, "sensors are picking up
two incoming ion trails.  Closing fast."
 
     "Got it Captain," voiced Captain Lee, "I'll take the one
coming in on 675 mark 19.  Wait till they materialize."
 
     "Acknowledged, Lexington.  Avenger out."  The screen faded to
the stars.  "Lt. Manson, prepare a full plasma ball.  I want no
mistakes.  Release it as soon as the Romulan materializes."
 
     "Aye sir."  Manson brought the plasma cannon up to full.  Even
with the improved versions of the Romulan warbirds, the plasma ball
would either destroy the Romulan ship, or render it forever
inactive.
 
     "A hundred thousand kilometres and closing, Captain," informed
S'Manluk.
 
     "Eighty.  Fifty thousand--they are well within disruptor
range.  Thirty.  Twenty.  Ten--Captain, I don't think--"
 
     "Manson, fire now!" shouted Varien.
 
     A large ball of energy issued from the Avenger.  A second
later the screen became filled with blinding light.  Another second
and the light intensified further, then waves of energy began to
batter the Avenger's hull.  The entire ship pitched in space. 
Operating through touch only, Dearla kept the ship as steady as
possible.  Several panels erupted in a shower of sparks.  When the
light faded, the Lexington was gone.
 
     "Suicide!..." murmured Varien.
 
     "Indeed, Captain," concurred S'Manluk, "the Romulans had no
intention of attacking.  They ran straight for us.  We barely
detonated the approaching Romulan within safety limits."  S'Manluk
lowered his voice and continued.  "The Lexington was destroyed
completely.  If I were to guess which ships came at us..."
 
     "The ones on which we destroyed only their disruptor bays,"
finished Varien sadly.  "They sacrificed the only thing left..."
 
     S'Manluk nodded as he approached the Captain's chair.  "Since
they could no longer use their weapons, the Romulan ships headed
straight for us.  An effective but final strategy."
 
     Varien stared at his first officer.  Did the Vulcan realize
what he was saying?  But he knew S'Manluk did not mean to be so
cold--on log taps of the Enterprise he had seen Spock react the
same way under similar circumstances.  An appropriate response
would be, 'Would you try to feel for a moment, S'Manluk?'  But
Varien already knew S'Manluk felt, perhaps more than he imagined. 
Right now, however, he just wished he had completely destroyed the
Romulan vessels instead of only taking out their weapons capacity. 
The Lexington might still be here...
 
     "Fine, S'Manluk," he finally replied.  "Stay at your post and
keep alert.  As we have just seen, the Romulans will do anything
for the final victory.  Damage control parties to all sections."
 
     S'Manluk nodded in acknowledgement and went to the sensor
station.  "Damage is minimal, Captain.  No major circuits.  Repairs
are already underway to the minor ones."
 
     Without sounding as drained as he felt, Varien said, "Take us
back to the Enterprise, Lt. Dearla."  Something inside him told him
there was still more war to be waged.
 
     
                             * * * * *
 
 
     "Fascinating."  Interference from the explosions was already
breaking up the image on the shuttle screen.
 
     "Spock, did you see that?  A suicide run."  Kirk's voice was
heavy with sadness.
 
     "The Lexington is gone, Jim, but the Avenger was able to
destroy the Romulan.  Varien saved the ship in time."
 
     Kirk felt a stab of pride even through the sickness he felt in
his stomach.  Watching the battle rage, not being in the thick of
it, he saw the senseless waste of life for so very little.  It was
all so unnecessary.  And all so painful.  "He's a good Captain,
Spock.  I'm glad to be leaving such an able successor."
 
     Spock raised a curious eyebrow.  The screen broke up in
static.


Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!newshost.uwo.ca!uwovax.uwo.ca!35002_4035
From: 35002_4035@uwovax.uwo.ca
Subject: GREAT STORY PART 9
Organization: University of Western Ont, London
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 22:28:32 GMT
Message-ID: <1993Apr21.182832.1@uwovax.uwo.ca>
Sender: news@julian.uwo.ca (USENET News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: hydra.uwo.ca
Lines: 830

          THE BATTLE CONTINUES...PART 9, WHERE, AS ONE FAMOUS ROCK
BAND ONCE SAID 'IT'S BETTER TO BURN OUT THAN FADE AWAY'.  TOMORROW,
THE END OF A GREAT STORY...OR THE BEGINNING OF A BETTER ONE.
 
  
PART 9
 
 
     The Enterprise's shields were back on line when the Avenger
returned.  The Potemkin was patrolling in a short weave pattern
nearby in case the three remaining Romulans were still intent on
further battle.  T'Lar, now acting Captain of the Potemkin,
reported all was clear.  Varien informed both ships of what they
knew already:  the Lexington had been destroyed.
 
     From the backside of the Roylan black hole, the remaining
Klingon vessel approached uncloaked.  It was became apparent that
is was the flagship, with Kaarg in command.  Though the Klingon
hailed only the Enterprise, Varien had his communications officer
listen in.
 
     "...our weapon systems have been de-activated," reported Kaarg
on his status, "we have only minimal shields."
 
     Chekov's sensors agreed with Kaarg's report.  "There is no
power registering in warp drive.  There is no power in their
disruptors either, Mr. Sulu."
 
     Sulu mumbled something to himself.  It was strange the Klingon
would give a report on the damage of his ship in so open a fashion. 
"Do you require assistance, Commander Kaarg?"  Sulu already knew
the response to the question.
 
     "No, Enterprise.  We are enacting repairs."  Kaarg seemed
almost to smile.  "We shall be battle ready in two hours."  Any
hint of a smile quickly faded.  "Have you heard from your Captain
Kirk?"  There was apprehension in Kaarg's voice.  Sulu doubted it
was concern.
 
     "No.  Since there have been no further signs of the Romulans,
we will check Tridare now for the Captain's shuttle."  Sulu had
already made the helmsman lay in a course.
 
     Kaarg clearly smiled this time, but he did not look happy. 
"We shall be glad to locate your Captain for you, Enterprise. 
Since we have sustained damage, I suggest you allow us to locate
him while you stand guard should the Romulans attack once again."
 
     It made sense, since the Enterprise was capable of taking on
a Romulan attack and the Klingon vessel wasn't.  "No, Commander, we
have two ships for defense," declined Sulu regardless, "we'll find
Captain Kirk ourselves.  Thank you for the offer, Sulu out."
 
     The screen returned to the cold stars.  Kaarg swore and glared
at his officers on the bridge.  He had hoped the Romulans would
have fought better, at least damaging all the Federation warships. 
But the one, the Avenger warship.  Its design was not like the
others, it was more war-like, and its Captain fought well, as
though he had Klingon blood.  Kaarg would have to deal with that
ship first, but he would have to wait...the Romulans would return
and then he would use them to further the advantage.  "Prepare to
have all weapons charged at my command!" he growled to his weapons
officer.  The Avenger would have to be the first Federation warship
to be destroyed.  If Kirk made it back to the Enterprise, then so
be it.  He would deal with Kirk as well.
 
     As the Enterprise was about to engage a return course to
Tridare, the Romulans did come.  The Potemkin's scanners were
unable to detect them before they materialized and discharged their
weapons.  Three Romulan cruisers fired full disruptors focusing in
on the Potemkin.  Divide and conquer, thought Varien, Nelson would
have approved.
 
     The Potemkin's lights went dark once more.  Nothing remained
of the bridge as the first salvo blasted it into space.  The second
severed both engine nacelles completely.  The Potemkin was now a
dead hulk.  As fast as the three Romulans had attacked, they had
disappeared.  The Avenger and Enterprise could do little else but
beam the thirty or so survivors that were left.  The Enterprise
sickbay and its Chief Medical officer had their hands full.
 
     "S'Manluk?"
 
     "No sign, Captain.  The Romulans have disappeared.  The
sensors are reading too many ionization trails to co-ordinate an
exact position."
 
     Varien thought immediately of the weakened Klingon ship. 
"Helm, after the Enterprise has beamed the last of the survivors
up, take us back to the Klingon vessel.  They'll probably strike it
next and it's helpless without disruptor power."
 
     A minute later, Dearla moved the Avenger towards the 
battlecruiser.  As the Avenger neared the motionless ship, a
distortion pattern appeared on the star field directly ahead. 
"Weapon's follow the distortion!  S'Manluk, ionization trail?"
 
     "One coming in at twenty seven point five--"
 
     "Weapons--"
 
     Lt. Manson fired the Avenger's phasers into nothing.  They
settled on a Romulan cruiser.  An instant later, the Avenger rocked
as two more Romulans appeared on either side.
 
     "Tactical!"
 
     "Only minor hits, Captain," replied S'Manluk coolly.  "The
distortion field has effectively prevented the Romulans from
targeting direct hits.  And Captain, the Klingon has powered
weapons to full and moved off."
 
     Varien said aloud, "So he was only playing hurt, but why?" 
Snapping out of internal thought, he ordered, "Manson, target the
visible Romulan with the plasma cannon.  Helm, co-ordinate with
weapons.  Maybe if the other ships see what they're dealing with,
they'll head home."  Varien knew this was very unlikely.
 
     "We're within attack range of the Romulan now, sir" noted
Manson.
 
     "Fire plasma cannon."  The order came easily to Varien, even
though it meant the destruction of the Romulan warbird.  With the
velocity of a phaser shot, the plasma ball overtook the Romulan and
destroyed it instantly.  It was a spectacular explosion of light,
but Varien had already directed Lt. Dearla to bring the Avenger
around.  "S'Manluk, any sign of the Klingon ship?"
 
     While S'Manluk immersed himself in the impossible task of
locating the cloaked Klingon, the two remaining warbirds appeared
and fired upon the Avenger.  One disruptor shot was a direct hit. 
Immediately upon firing, they disappeared.
 
     The lights on the bridge faded for just a moment.  "Damage?"
 
     "All shields down forty percent, Captain.  From the close
proximity of the Romulan vessel, it is remarkable that the shields
still hold power at all."
 
     "Thank-you, Mr. S'Manluk."  Varien hit a button on his command
chair.  "Bridge to engineering.  How bad?"
 
     "O'Shean here, sir.  We took quite a blast.  You still have
phasers, but I can't give you the plasma cannon and hold the
shields up at the same time."
 
     "Fine, Marty.  Keep it together for a while longer.  We're
almost clear."
 
     On the screen the Enterprise powered into view.  "Enterprise
to Avenger.  Come in Avenger."
 
     Varien recognized Uhura's concerned voice.  "Kirk here,
Enterprise."
 
     "Varien, this is Sulu.  We saw you take quite a shot.  What's
your status?"
 
     "Minimal damage, Enterprise.  How many survivors from the
Potemkin?"
 
     Sulu grimaced.  "Thirty-two.  Doctor McCoy says most of them
are pretty bad.  We're going to head for Tridare.  There are some
specialized medical facilities on the planet that will hopefully
save some of the more severely injured.  We'll also pick up Captain
Kirk.  He'll want to know what's happened."
 
     "Acknowledged, Enterprise.  We'll follow you in.  Kirk out."
 
     With the Enterprise in the lead, the two remaining starships
made for Tridare.  As soon as their courses were engaged, the
Klingon vessel decloaked and appeared directly behind the Avenger.
 
     "Well," noted Varien, they seem to show up right when we don't
need them."
 
     S'Manluk looked curiously at his tactical readout.  "They have
full shielding," he reported, "and are fully armed."
 
     Varien's brow had just knit in puzzlement at the information
when the Klingon fired full disruptors and two torpedoes.  The
lights on the Avenger bridge went dim.  There was a bitter smell of
burnt circuits and human flesh in the air, as the emergency lights
flickered on.  Several bridge members lay scattered on the floor,
some bleeding profusely.
 
     Ignoring his own injuries, Varien ordered a damage report. 
S'Manluk replied quickly and efficiently.  "No power to the
shields.  Warp drive out.  Distortion field inoperative."
 
     "Kirk to engineering...Marty, are you there?"
 
     There was no reply.  'Damn', swore Varien under his breath. 
"S'Manluk, can you get me a tactical?"
 
     Lt. Dearla, her face burned, her uniform splattered in blood,
lifted herself into the helmsman seat.  Able to use only one hand,
she hit a sequence of buttons and the front screen came to life. 
The Enterprise was firing at the Klingon ship.  There were several
direct hits before Kaarg veered off, his ship cloaking to ensure
its escape.
 
     S'Manluk spoke, actually coughing once.  "Several hull
ruptures, Captain.  Life support systems out in most of the ship. 
We have a small reserve of impulse power."  S'Manluk stopped and
looked again at the screen.  For a moment, his tone registered a
hint of emotion.  "Varien, I'm reading a slow build-up in the
matter/anti-matter pods..."
 
     Varien understood.  He swallowed a lump.  "Estimated time
before explosion?"
 
     "Twenty-two point six minutes."
 
     There was an unnatural human silence on the bridge.  Circuits
crackled and hissed.  Then someone moaned.  Scrambling out of the
command chair, Varien went to the communications chair.  With care,
he laid the man who once held the post on the floor and knelt
beside him.  He was dead, his face was almost unrecognizable,
having been blackened from overloaded circuits.  Varien could hear
the skin sizzling, see it bubbling.  It didn't seem real none of
it, and he wanted to wake up and see his ship and crew healthy--
proud once more.  But it was real, and there was no time to dream
it away.  His duty pulled him to his feet.
 
     There was only one non-seared panel left on the board.  With
it, Varien was able to get the Enterprise through a field of
static.  "Kirk to Enterprise, have received heavy damage.  We are
forced to abandon ship.  Request a medical crew to beam survivors
over.
 
     Sulu's eyes widened in shock at the visual.  Varien himself
was openly bleeding in several places, his uniform torn, his face
black from the smoke of burning circuits.  Blood trickled from a
gash near his eye.  "Acknowledged, Captain," was all Sulu could
say.
 
 
     There were not many survivors left on the Avenger, and those
who were still alive were mainly in the forward sections.  The rear
of the ship had taken the full force of the Klingon attack from
point blank range.  Fifteen minutes later, Varien found himself
staring up at the concerned face of Doctor McCoy in the Enterprise
sickbay.
 
     "Well?"
 
     McCoy was finishing a covering skin over the largest gash. 
"You should stay here, Varien.  You've lost quite a bit of blood,
but you'll be fine."
 
     Varien rose, doing his best to hide the rushing nausea from
his effort.  "I'm fine right now, Doctor McCoy.  How is S'Manluk
and Lt. Dearla?"
 
     "Lt. Dearla was hurt pretty bad.  We're operating on her
now...she should make it.  S'Manluk is on the bridge.  It's only
'logical' that he be there.  Blasted Vulcans...I never know whether
they're dead or not."
 
     Varien looked up at McCoy, and for a moment, the Doctor saw
the hurt in his eyes.  "How many were saved?"
 
     "The Klingons did a pretty good job, Varien."  McCoy brought
his eyes down to the sickbay floor.  "Only eighteen are still
alive."
 
     "Eighteen..."  Varien's eyes misted.  "I should have known--"
 
     "It wasn't your fault, Varien.  How could you know the
Klingons were going to attack?"  McCoy could see the pain in the
young Captain's face, and it was all too familiar.  "Stay here now,
and let Sulu handle things."
 
     Varien's face matted into concrete.  "I'm going to the bridge. 
Don't try to argue with me, Doctor, I have a job to do up there." 
The young Kirk jumped off the sickbay table, took one look around
at the injured bodies of his crew with those of the Potemkin, and
left for the Enterprise bridge.
 
                             * * * * *
 
     The tactical showed Kaarg had aimed well.  The Avenger was
completely incapacitated.  He turned his sights on the Enterprise. 
Without Kirk, it should be an easy prize.  "Action!" he ordered,
and the ship uncloaked.  Even as the last disruptor blaze at the
Earthship, Kaarg had growled for a damage report.  Their shields
still held but were down fifty percent.  His tactical officer
reported two incoming Romulans both uncloaked.  The Enterprise
fired back at both, direct hits.  He let loose a gutteral snarl
that would sour Klingon ale.  Still the Enterprise fought on as
though Feklahr commanded her!  But Kaarg did not mind.  Everything
had been as he had wished.  Even Feklahr had to die to make to the
Klingon underworld.
 
     "Cloak--Action!  Helm, take us out of range."  His commands
were obeyed instantly.  'Yes', he chuckled to himself, let the
Romulan dogs fight the Federation.  Their new ships were nothing
the Klingon Empire should be concerned about.  Very soon,
Klingzhai, and Kaarg, would have dominion.
  
 
     When Varien came to the bridge, his first sight was S'Manluk
at Spock's station.  Chekov was in his familiar navigations post
beside a helmsman he did not recognize.  Sulu was in the Captain's
chair.  On the main visual was his ship, the Avenger.   As he
strode to the centre of the bridge, Sulu turned and smiled warmly. 
"Captain."
 
     As Varien nodded and went to stand beside Sulu, the Enterprise
helmsman rose.  The Captain's chair of the Enterprise was empty. 
Sulu motioned him in with a firm pat on the shoulder.  Turning to
his accustomed post, he relieved the man at the helm.  Chekov
settled in his navigation's chair a little more comfortably with
his familiar friend at his side.
 
     Varien hesitated for a moment only, then took his father's
place as Captain of the Enterprise.  "S'Manluk, time before Avenger
overload."
 
     "One minute, eight seconds," the Vulcan said promptly. 
Turning to his sensors, he continued, "Two Romulan warbirds are
approaching once more.  From opposite directions, this time,
Captain."
 
     "Status, Mr. Chekov."
 
     "Shields down to half, Kaptin.  Weapons at full power, torpedo
bays stand ready."
 
     Varien's eyes flashed.  "S'Manluk, is the Avenger's
navigational computer still functioning?"
 
     "Yes, Captain," came the reply after a moment.  "And it has
port phaser capacity."
 
     "Punch in the Avenger's over-riding security code: 26543K1
Omega.  Control to Mr. Sulu," Varien ordered quickly.  "Time to
explosion?"
 
     "Thirty-five seconds," replied the Vulcan.
 
     As Varien was about to speak again, McCoy exited the turbo-
lift and stood at the side of the Captain's chair.  Varien nodded
to McCoy's warm smile and said, "Mr. Sulu, I don't think our
Romulan friends know the full extent of Avenger's damage.  Take her
on a direct course to the estimated point at which the Romulan
ships will converge."
 
     "Switching control now, Captain.  Twenty-five seconds to anti-
matter detonation."
 
     "What are the Romulan headings?"
 
     "345.18 and 876.19."
 
     "Take her, Mr. Sulu."
 
     Sulu played over an auxiliary helm control.  Varien watched as
the Avenger began to slowly move towards the incoming Romulans.
 
     "Romulan ships have altered their course.  They are coming
right at the Avenger," announced S'Manluk.
 
     Sulu watched a small display board for tactical as he took the
Avenger farther away from the Enterprise.
 
     "Twelve..." S'Manluk began.
 
     "Sulu, fire Avenger phasers," directed Varien.  "Don't worry
about accuracy."
 
     "Ten..."
 
     Sulu danced with the controls.  Phasers burst out of the
Avenger's side, barely missing an oncoming Romulan.  It was a
miraculous effort.
 
     "Eight...Disruptors powering up...," read S'Manluk on several
boards simultaneously.  "Seven...Romulan ships are eighty thousand
kilometres and closing...six...forty thousand and closing..."
 
     "Good-bye, my love," whispered Varien.
 
     "Two...one..."  S'Manluk looked to the forward screen.  There
was a rainbow explosion of colour, then the Avenger was gone. 
S'Manluk and Varien exchanged a silent glance between each other,
sharing their grief for a brief moment.
 
     "Damage to the Romulan ships, Mr. S'Manluk?" Varien asked
quietly.
 
     "Severe damage to both ships, Captain.  I read no warp drive,
nor weapons capacity.  They have been disabled."
 
     "Lt. Uhura, would you hail the Romulan ships.  Perhaps..."
 
     Kaarg's vessel materialized by the two Romulans.  Cold
disruptor fire brought a quick end to both ships.  The Klingon
cruiser cloaked out once more.
 
     "Damn," swore Varien, "what is with those people?"  
 
     Sulu turned to the young Captain.  "The Romulan's would not
have surrendered.  The Klingon ship did them a favour."
 
     Varien regarded Sulu carefully, then turned to his first
officer.  "S'Manluk, projected heading of the Klingon vessel."
 
     "I read a direct course to Tridare, Captain.  A faint ion
trail confirms the projection."
 
     "Mr. Sulu..."
 
     "Course laid in for Tridare, Captain," replied the helmsman.
 
     "Lt. Uhura, try raising the Columbia.  See if we can warn the
Captain and Spock."  Varien focused his full attention on finding
his father.  There would be more than enough time later to think
about the Avenger and his crew.
 
     Uhura tried again.  "Enterprise to Columbia, come in
Columbia..."
 
     "Columbia here, Enterprise."  Though the reply that finally
came was distant and filled with static, everyone recognized
Spock's voice.
 
     "Enterprise, what's your status?"  It was Captain Kirk.  He
sounded tense, and worried.
 
     Uhura waved to Varien and he answered, "We're fine, Captain. 
S'Manluk reports that the Klingons are headed your way...be careful
of them."
 
     "What do you mean...Spock, is that--"
 
     The transmission abruptly ended.  Varien shot a look to Uhura. 
"Blocked at the source," she said simply.  Then putting a hand to
another panel, she declared, "Another transmission coming in." 
Varien's eyes flashed with hope.  "From the Klingon vessel," she
specified.
 
     Varien felt the blood leaving his face.  "On the screen,
Lieutenant," he instructed hurriedly.
 
     "Enterprise, this is Kaarg.  I have your Captain.  Either you
release your ship to me, or he and the Vulcan first officer will be
killed."  His message was short and succinct.
 
     Varien showed no emotion.  He could hear McCoy and the rest of
the bridge uttering curses.  And he felt an incomparable loathing
for the cold, reptilian-like creature on the screen before him. 
"This is acting Captain Ki--Varien.  Please specify your terms." 
Several glances shot out from the bridge of the Enterprise at
Varien's words.
 
     Kaarg laughed in response.  "Watch, Earthling worm."  The
screen faded into a star field, then the Klingon cruiser appeared. 
Held firmly in a tractor beam behind it was the Columbia.
 
     Varien, puzzled, turned to S'Manluk as the Klingon cruiser
passed by.  "Heading?"
 
     S'Manluk looked up from his sensor board.  "To the Roylan
black hole, Varien."
 
     "Helm, follow them." Varien commanded, and then slumped in his
chair, showing for a moment the tremendous strain he felt.  McCoy
spoke, and his words felt like acid.  "Well, Varien, welcome to the
world of Captain of the Enterprise.  What are you going to do?"
 
     Varien straightened up, strength returning.  "We're going to
wait Doctor."
 
     McCoy's eyes glanced up and down Varien's face.  "You can't
let Jim and Spock die."
 
     "I know, but I can't give them the Enterprise.  They'd kill us
all anyway."
 
     McCoy became quiet.  It wasn't Jim Kirk he was talking, but it
could have been.
 
     "The Klingon cruiser has stopped, Captain," announced
S'Manluk.
 
     "Position?"
 
     "Critically close to the black hole.  With their energy
expenditure on the tractor beam, they will be unable to hold their
position for more then three point six minutes.  After that time,
they will not be able escape the gravitational effects of the
Roylan black hole themselves."
 
     Varien nodded.  This Kaarg did not leave much to chance.  The
screen faded into Kaarg once more.  "Acting Captain Varien, what is
your decision?  Surrender the Enterprise immediately, or we will
release your Captain into the black hole where he will be crushed
into infinity."
 
     Varien glared at the Klingon commander.  Kaarg continued,
almost in child-like ecstacy.  "The great Captain Kirk and his
Vulcan friend, squashed as though no more than annoying insects and
all the universe will rejoice when it hears of their fate.  Such a
pitiable death, but no more than any spineless Earthman deserves." 
Kaarg laughed deep within his bowels.  "You have thirty seconds,
Enterprise, then Kirk will be no more."  The screen faded into the
Klingon cruiser and its tenuous beam holding the Columbia from
certain death.
 
     "S'Manluk," burst Varien, "can you calculate the velocity
necessary to intersect the released shuttle.  If we could get close
enough to transport them out..."
 
     S'Manluk raised an eyebrow.  "Calculating now, Captain."
 
     "Hurry, S'Manluk, hurry."  McCoy put a hand out to Varien's
shoulder.  The Doctor nodded in approval.  Varien felt his heart
racing.  They would do it, he knew they would.
 
     "I have the figures now, Captain," notified S'Manluk.  "If the
Klingons maintain their present position, we will need warp one
point two in order to escape the black hole's gravitation. 
However, there is only a forty-eight percent chance that we will be
able to lock onto Captain Kirk and Mr. Spock.  If we could contact
the Columbia, they could co-ordinate with us and increase the
probability to fifty-nine percent."  S'Manluk did his best be
master of his rising fears.  Probability calculations mixed with
thoughts of Spock, of a detention cell, the closed space, humans
asking question after question...but he concentrated, and
controlled his emotions, as his mentor would wish.
 
     "Uhura?," asked Varien, staring at the shuttle on the main
viewer.
 
     "The Klingon cruiser is blocking all transmission, sir."
 
     Varien nodded.  "We'll have to take what we've got.  Sulu,
stand ready.  Mr. Chekov, plot our course.  Make sure you give us
enough space to reach warp 1.2.  Kirk to engineering, Mr. Scott?"
 
     "Scott, here."
 
     "Scotty, we're going to needed all the power we can get to the
transporters.  Divert all unnecessary systems, including shields. 
All I want is warp 1.2. and two strong transporter beams."
 
     "Aye, Captain, understood.  Scott out."
 
     "Mr. Chekov?"
 
     "Course laid in sir."
 
     "Stand by helm.  Co-ordinate with Mr. S'Manluk and tie the
transporter beam in with the ship's computer.  We're going to beat
the odds.  Uhura, get me Kaarg's ship."
 
     Uhura complied and Kaarg appeared, observably gloating. 
"Well, Enterprise?" he asked contemptuously.
 
     "Kaarg, go to the devil!"  With a sharp wave of a hand, Varien
had Uhura cut the transmission.  "Now, Mr. Chekov, engage!"
 
     The Enterprise veered off into open space.  Reaching the
necessary distance, she pivoted back and surged into warp speed.
 
     S'Manluk spoke aloud what the screen before them showed.  "The
Klingons have released the shuttle and are moving off."
 
     "Sulu, stand ready.  Uhura, get me the Columbia."
 
     Kirk and Spock appeared on the bridge screen.  McCoy mumbled
about a sight for sore eyes.  "Dad," shouted Varien, "we're going
to slingshot in and beam you out.  Give the shuttle as much power
as you can towards us."
 
     Spock turned to the shuttle engines and began to rapidly press
a series of thrusters.  Kirk said to Varien, "I'm sorry about your
ship, son.  The Enterprise?"
 
     McCoy broke in.  "The Enterprise is fine, dammit!  Get that
pointed-eared Vulcan working on getting that shuttle out of there!"
 
     Spock raised an amused eyebrow.  Kirk smiled.  "Three seconds
to intercept course," notified S'Manluk.
 
     'C'mon,' Varien prayed silently, 'just this time, just this
one time'.
 
     "Now!" announced S'Manluk.  The lights on the Enterprise
dimmed as the transporter beams shot out.  For a moment, it grasped
fully both Kirk and Spock, but the black hole seemed to reach out
and push the one beam away from the shuttle the shuttle.  The beam
snapped back to the Enterprise leaving one occupant stranded in the
shuttle.
 
     Varien did not want to believe his eyes.  Sulu confirmed it. 
"We missed one."
 
     "Helm, all stop.  Reverse course, now!"  Varien gripped the
side of the Captain's chair as hard as he could.  "No, it can't end
this way, I won't let it!  It has to be both.  Both!"
 
     The screen sparkled then settled on the Columbia.  Any where
else, and the shuttle would appear to be travelling normally in
space.  But the black hole, and its glowing outer edge was there,
and it was claiming the shuttle.
 
     Uhura managed to patch in a visual.  Captain Kirk was sitting
back in his chair, his hand thoughtfully supporting his chin. 
Spock had been saved.  
 
     The Enterprise bridge was a confusion of shouts and cries. 
Kirk turned to his viewer.  "Good try, Varien, you almost made it. 
Spock is safe?"
 
     "Dad!"
 
     Kirk smiled softly at his son's cry.  "Take care of my ship,
son.  She's yours now."
 
     On a corner of the bridge, S'Manluk closed his eyes for a
moment, then raised his hand.  The dark fingers were shaking as he
formed them into the familiar V.  "Live long and prosper, Captain
Kirk."
 
     Spock was on the bridge now.  He went to Varien side, his eyes
wide, almost with disbelief.  "Jim..."
 
     Uhura's eyes let known what her heart was feeling.  Sulu and
Chekov both were shouting words that no one could understand. 
Scotty jumped out of the turbo lift and stopped dead in his tracks
as he saw the screen.  Kirk smiled at him.  Scotty gave him a
salute and a return smile.  "Take care, Captain," he said softly.
 
     The lump in Varien's throat made it futile to try and swallow. 
"Take me sailing," he whispered softly.  "We'll take Mom this
time..."
 
     McCoy stared for a moment at his best friend, his mind
fighting the knowledge that he would never see him again.  "Jim,
NO!  Don't leave me alone!  Damn you, don't leave me!"
 
     The image was beginning to become distorted, stretched.  Jim
Kirk lifted a hand in farewell to his friend.  "Good-bye Bones. 
You and Spock look after my son."  With a smile, Jim added, "And my
grandchildr--"
 
     The screen broke up.  McCoy screamed through his tears.  "No! 
No!  We're supposed to die together!  Don't go!  Jim!  Jim!"  McCoy
shouted to Spock, believing the Vulcan could do something to make
things right.
 
     The main viewer became clear, showing a shuttle gracefully
heading into infinite space.  A deathly silence fell over the
bridge, each person alone in their agony.  The shuttle seemed to
lift up for a moment, its forward pointed to the stars.  Then the
black hole twisted the end around and the shuttle disappeared into
the death star's glowing event horizon and was gone.
 
     McCoy slumped down to the floor, his face hidden in his
trembling hands.  Uhura turned to her communications console, tears
burning her eyes.  Sulu and Chekov stared at their own boards, too
numb for emotion.  Scotty stood silently by the engineering post,
feeling out of place on the Enterprise for the first time in his
life.  Spock privately endured the inmost pain from the loss of
contact of his companion, but did not show any visible grief; Jim
had been right, he had said he was meant to die alone.  Varien was
biting hard into his fist, still not believing, still trying to
reason out how to save the shuttle, how to save the Captain of the
Enterprise, how to save his father.
 
     A white speck appeared on the front viewer, moving amongst the
stars.  For a moment, Varien's heart skipped with joy.  The speck
grew into a discernable configuration.  Varien's pulse raced with
rage.  "Mr. Sulu," he cracked, "there is a Klingon war vessel still
out there.  Please compute the Sulu attack strategy. Helmsman, I
want that ship destroyed."  The command was dry and cold, an
excellent dish of Klingon revenge.
 
     Sulu nodded and began to move slowly.  As he saw the Klingon
warship grow larger, he moved faster and faster, anger rising in
his veins.  Chekov waved a fist at the screen, at the Klingons who
had taken his idol away.  Immediately he commenced working in
tandem with Sulu, preparing navigations for the attack.
 
     Varien, his face impassive, kept his eyes on the screen as he
vocalized, "Mr. Spock, see that Mr. Sulu has the full cooperation
of the ship's computer."
 
     Mr. Scott, can you bring your engines to full power for one
last time."
 
     Scotty nodded.  "Aye, Captain, one last time."
 
     S'Manluk turned to the science station and gazed at Spock who
had made no comment at Vafrien's commands except the raising of his
eyebrow.  Though he sensed Spock's grief, he watched as his 'moso
wan' calmly fed the navigational equations into the computer,
feeding the results to Mr. Sulu.
 
     Slowly, as if taunting Varien, the Klingon cruiser grew larger
and larger on the screen.  Sulu turned and signaled he was ready. 
The Enterprise waited for his command, hungry for revenge.  "Mr.
Sulu, prepare to destroy the--"
 
     "No!"
 
     Varien whirled in surprise at the harsh protest.  McCoy rose
slowly, his eyes bright red, his cheeks wet.  "Don't destroy them,
Varien."
 
     Varien looked carefully into the eyes of the ship's chief
surgeon.  He didn't want to feel, he didn't want to think, in case
of breaking down on the bridge, yet he managed to say to the
Doctor, "Why?  Don't you realize what they've done?"
 
     McCoy saw all the faces of the bridge angrily staring at them,
all except Spock's.  "Is this what we're here for?" he cried
hoarsely.  "Is this what the Enterprise has stood for?  What would
Jim say if they saw this?  If we destroy that ship out there, we're
no better than they are...and that means we'll have learned nothing
since the first day we brought the Enterprise out."  McCoy's voice
was trembling with pain.  He directed a final gaze at Varien.  "Jim
might have made the same mistake as you when he was your age,
Varien.  But not now.  That's why he went out in that blasted
shuttle.  He wanted peace for all people, even if he had to give
his life for it."  McCoy's eyes fell to the bridge floor.  "Don't
let that life be wasted for nothing," he whispered roughly, and
then left the bridge.
 
     Varien, after a moment of silence, applied his attention to
the Klingon warship.  "Mr. Sulu, belay that last command.  Mr.
Spock, what is the Klingon ship's status?"
 
     For a split second, Spock hesitated, still feeling the
powerful words of Doctor McCoy.  It was no wonder Captain Kirk had
engendered so much respect for the man.  "The Klingon vessel is
still approaching us slowly, Captain.  Fifty- thousand
kilometers...they are arming their disruptors now."
 
     Varien nodded.  "Apparently they are unsure of our status. 
Mr. Chekov, target phasers to overload their shields.  Lt. Uhura,
raise the Klingon Commander immediately afterward."
 
     "Phasers armed and ready, sir," responded Chekov.
 
     "Fire phasers."  Several streams shot out directly hitting
their target.  The envelope of the Klingon's shields sparkled then
faded, leaving them inoperative.
 
     "I have their Commander, Captain," informed Uhura a moment
later.
 
     "On the screen, please," Varien requested with satisfaction. 
 
 
     Kaarg appeared, his arms across his chest, his face smug. 
Varien felt an almost uncontrollable rage welling up inside him,
but he was able to control it, enough so as to keep his face
stolid.
 
     Kaarg spoke first.  "Acting Commander," he acknowledged.
 
     Varien smiled with pride.  "This James V. Kirk, acting Captain
of the U.S.S. Enterprise.  I order you to surrender your vessel in
violation of Federation and Klingon treaty."
 
     Kaarg laughed.  "You were in command of the earthship Avenger,
were you not?  You fight well for an Earthman, but we destroyed
your ship regardless.  And you also say you are Kirk.  Quite
remarkable for a dead man.  I did not know falling into a black
hole turned one into a boy..."
 
     Varien sat up in the captain's chair, icily regarding the
Klingon.  "Surrender your ship or we will finish what we started!"
 
     The smile left Kaarg's face.  "Do not threaten me, Earthman! 
It is you who will be destroyed!"
 
     Varien waved a hand.  Uhura responded by causing the screen to
go blank.  "Mr. Sulu and Mr. Chekov," he said casually, "disable
the Klingon ship, please.  Fire when you are ready."
 
     Torpedoes and phasers burst out of the Enterprise.  There were
no misses.  The Enterprise passed by the reeling warship, firing
directly at the Klingon's engines.  Less than a minute later, Spock
was reporting the Klingon ship completely incapacitated.
 
     Thinking of Kaarg's face now, Varien matter-of-factly said to
the Chief Engineer, "Mr. Scott, I believe we have some garbage to
haul back to Starbase 1.  Get a tractor beam on the Klingon ship." 
Scotty nodded.  "Navigator, lay in a course for the Starbase. 
Three-quarters impulse, helm.  Mr. S'Manluk, monitor the Klingon
vessel closely for any energy build-up.  I want to know ahead of
time if they are going to destroy themselves."
 
     Everyone moved quickly to perform the commands.  With their
minds occupied for the moment, they could put off their feelings of
emptiness and heartache.  Uhura called to Varien.  "The Klingon
commander is hailing us, Captain.  He demands to speak with you."
 
     Varien waved his hand across the screen and Kaarg appeared. 
"Kirk," he spat, "you attacked my ship without warning!  You will
pay for this!  Your Federation will not be pleased to learn of this
treachery!"
 
     Varien shook his head, wondering if the Klingon before him
actually believed what he was saying.  "Commander, you are formally
charged with willfully murdering numerous Starfleet crewmen, not to
mention the destruction of several ships.  You have probably caused
a war with the Romulan Empire which will result in the deaths of
countless innocent people.  You have destroyed my own ship and you
have also murdered my father.  Not bad for a day's work!"
 
     Kaarg stared through the space between the two ships.  "So you
are Kirk's son.  I thought the one was dead."
 
     "That was another son which your people murdered without
cause."
 
     Kaarg nodded slowly.  "I will remember you Kirk, and we shall
meet again.  You are much like your father."  The screen went dead.
 
     "Whoever wants the helm can have it, gentlemen," called out
Varien weakly, "I'll be in my father's quarters."  With that,
Varien left the bridge exhausted, the rush of adrenalin gone
leaving him with feeble legs and an exposed heart.


Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!newshost.uwo.ca!uwovax.uwo.ca!35002_4035
From: 35002_4035@uwovax.uwo.ca
Subject: GREAT STORY--END
Organization: University of Western Ont, London
Date: Thu, 22 Apr 1993 23:28:24 GMT
Message-ID: <1993Apr22.192824.1@uwovax.uwo.ca>
Sender: news@julian.uwo.ca (USENET News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: hydra.uwo.ca
Lines: 239

THIS IS THE LAST OF A 'GREAT' STORY. THE ENTIRE STORY WILL BE
POSTED NEXT WEEK FOR THOSE WHO MISSED ANY PARTS.
I MUST DEDICATE ANY WORTH DERIVED FROM IT TO GENE RODDENBERRY.  FOR
THOSE WHO HAVE READ ANY PARTS, I THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
AND FOR SHARING MY EFFORT.  IF EVEN ONE LINE MADE YOU SMILE,
CONSIDER ME SATISFIED.  FOR JAMES T. KIRK, WHO KNOWS WHERE 
OR WHEN HE IS.  BUT HE'LL NEVER DIE, AND NEITHER WILL THE
IDEA WE CAN ALL WORK TOGETHER IF WE REALLY WANT TO.
 
EPILOGUE
 
     They were in Jim Kirk's quarters.  The pieces of antique
sailing artifacts seemed to bring the sound of the sea closer to
Varien's ears.  McCoy took another deep gulp of Saurian brandy and
said, "Jim and I spent a lot of time in here drinking this stuff. 
He never liked it, but he always drank it."  The Doctor's eyes were
red and puffy, as were Varien's.
 
     A transmission from Starfleet came in, Uhura channelling it
through.  Behind the Starfleet seal sat an Admiral neither Varien
nor McCoy recognized.  "We have received and reviewed acting
Enterprise Captain Varien Kirk's report.  While we acknowledge the
great loss of life and the destruction of several Federation ships,
we must also recognize the mitigating circumstances and must
respect Commander Kaarg's reactions to fears of a clandestine
Federation/Romulan treaty.  Therefore, as a show of good faith to
our Klingon friends, all charges against Commander Kaarg are hereby
dismissed and the Enterprise is hereby ordered to aid the Commander
in any way possible.  With regards to the planet Tridare, it must
be recognized that the entire effort was indeed a mistake and the
city of Babylon will forthwith be dismantled and all Federation and
Klingon scientists and personnel evacuated immediately. 
Furthermore, acting Enterprise Captain Varien Kirk is relieved of
all duties pending a full investigation.  Starfleet out."
 
     The screen went dead, leaving Varien to shake his head in
disbelief.  McCoy put a hand on his shoulder.  "Did you expect
anything less, Varien?"
 
     "Perhaps not for me, but at least for Dad.  To let Kaarg
off..."
 
     "For the peace of the galaxy," echoed McCoy derisively.  "Now
the Klingons and the Federation have a common enemy."  McCoy
shifted to face Varien.  "What will you do, son?"
 
     Varien shrugged.  "Go home, look after Mom, and Grandma.  It
looks like my career is finished."  A big gulp later, he added, "I
don't think I want anything to do with Starfleet and their
political games.  It's hard enough worrying about your crew's
lives...and their deaths."
 
     McCoy smiled.  "I remember once, it was an early mission, our
first meeting with the Romulans.  Jim was sitting just about where
you were on the old Enterprise, and I said to him something I heard
them say to an old customer:  'In this galaxy, there's a
mathematical probability of 3 million earth type planets and in all
the universe, 3 million million galaxies like this.  And in all of
that, and perhaps more, only one of each of us--don't destroy the
one named Kirk'."  McCoy put a hand out to a weary shoulder and
said softly, "You're that Kirk now, Varien."
 
     Varien fought back a rush of emotion.  "Where do you suppose
he is?"
 
     McCoy bit his lip and looked into his glass.  "I don't know,
maybe in another universe somewhere...perhaps he hit a Hawkins'
wormhole sending the shuttle off to another part of our universe." 
He did not want to say what they both really felt:  that Jim was
dead, really dead.
 
     Varien saw a mist in McCoy's eyes.  "And what are you going to
do?" he asked in return.
 
     McCoy kept staring into his glass as he replied, "It's time
for this old country doctor to head home.  I never liked these
sardine can ships..."  His voice trailed off, his mind lost in
thought.
 
     Varien sipped the brandy until McCoy came back.  "Varien, I
want you to have something--something very special.  I know Jim
would feel the same."  Reaching over to a compartment under the
desk top, McCoy punched in a sequence of numbers on the lock.  He
reached inside and lifted out a gold shirt embossed with a command
insignia, and passed it over to Varien.  It was a Constellation
class Captain's uniform shirt.  "That was Jim's first ever
Captain's shirt," explained McCoy.  "It was the one thing he had
saved from the first Enterprise."
 
     Varien held the shirt reverently, fighting back an urge to
break down and cry.  How many log tapes had he seen his father make
in this very same shirt... 
 
     The door buzzed.  "Come," called Varien roughly.
 
     Spock and S'Manluk walked in, looking somewhat uncomfortable. 
Awkwardly, S'Manluk said, "Captain, uh, I received notification
that you were relieved of duties..."
 
     Varien smiled.  "Hmmm, news travels fast.  Sit down, S'Manluk,
Spock.  We were just reliving old times."
 
     S'Manluk, looking stiff, sat down beside McCoy.  "I grieve for
you," the young Vulcan said unexpectedly to the doctor.
 
     McCoy brought his eyes out of the glass and said to S'Manluk. 
"Thank-you.  And I for you, Spock," McCoy added, his words
beginning to slur.  "You lost your one and only friend.  But now
you are the one and only Captain of the Enterprise, to carry on her
great tradition."
 
     Spock looked tired, more tired than McCoy had ever seen him. 
"I have resigned my commission, Doctor.  I am going home.  A Vulcan
freighter awaits me now."
 
     "Home, Spock?"  McCoy raised his eyebrow.  "I didn't think you
had a home."
 
     Spock studied McCoy carefully.  Even to the end, the Doctor's
sarcasm was surgically fine.  The room was uncomfortably silent,
Varien deep in thought, holding his father's first command shirt. 
Sensing the awkwardness of the situation, S'Manluk began to perform
a Vulcan mind exercise.
 
     McCoy put his glass down as he spoke to his Vulcan nemesis. 
"Spock I--I just can't believe Jim's gone.  I--"  At a loss for
words, he just shook his head, still numb.
 
     Spock understood.  They were strangers now, their common bond
forever gone.  He doubted that he and McCoy never meet again.  But
they did have something more than sarcastic barbs between them. 
Indeed, they were more alike than either would want to admit.  With
a time honoured raising of a hand, Spock gave McCoy a final salute.
 
"Live long and prosper, Dr. McCoy, I shall remember you always."  
     McCoy felt a sickness rising.  He didn't want it to end this
way.  "Spock, I want to thank you for allowing me the privilege to
serve with you.  Next to Jim, you are the person I most admire."  
McCoy stood.  "Live long and prosper, my friend."
 
     Spock watched as McCoy raised his hand in a poor attempt at
the Vulcan salute.  He never could do it properly.  For a moment
their eyes met and something warm was shared.  "Good-bye, Doctor,"
he said finally, and then nodded good-bye to Varien and S'Manluk. 
Jim's door shut behind Spock.
  
     S'Manluk turned to McCoy.  Pausing for a moment, he finally
remarked, "Spock greatly admires you, Doctor McCoy, as equally as
he did his Captain.  He did not tell you this, which I find
illogical.  Yet you are as remarkable as he related to me.  It was
you who pointed out one of the highest of Vulcan ideals:  that the
taking of life for revenge is as incorrect as the initial injury."
 
     McCoy murmured, "The spear in your brother's heart is the
spear in your own."
 
     S'Manluk's eyebrow raised.  "Truly there is an honoured place
for you on Vulcan if you so desired, Doctor McCoy," he remarked
ironically.
 
     "Thank-you, S'Manluk, thank you but no, one Vulcan was more
than enough.  I sure wish Spock was here for what you just said..."
 
     "He would agree with me, Doctor."
 
     McCoy fought back the sweeping onrush of his emotions.  He
knew Spock would have.
 
 
 
     Varien Kirk went to the bridge of the Enterprise one last time
dressed in his father's gold command shirt.  Those people on the
bridge who had known his father, more so than they had known their
own families, felt a surge of nostalgia overwhelm themselves. 
Uhura, Scotty, Chekov, Sulu--instantly they were transported to
another time, another place, another ship...the first Enterprise. 
But something was not right.  Spock was not here in his typical
blue science uniform.  And the bridge was different, newer...
 
     Varien made for the centre of the bridge, to the Captain's
chair which stood vacant.  One last time, he sat on the cushions
which gave him the authority to command a starship, to command the
Enterprise.  Yet the cushions felt hard and uncomfortable, and
Varien knew he did not belong.  Sadly, he glanced at the main
viewer, and at the stars passing by.  How many nights had he
thought of flying through the stars.  How hard had he worked to be
the best, to be worthy of his father's name.  The dream was over. 
He lifted himself out of the chair and into the turbo-lift.  He
wanted his last hours on the Enterprise spent in his father's
cabin.
 
 
     With Varien gone, there was a heavy emptiness on the bridge. 
They all felt it.  Scotty and Uhura, Sulu and Chekov, even the
junior officers who had never known the first Enterprise.  The ship
would never be the same, and they knew it was time for them to go
as well.
 
     
     In a far off section of the galaxy, where Federation and
Klingon space collide with Romulan space, the only city on the
planet Tridare was busily being evacuated, a large Federation
Terminal Chief sweating even more than usual as he directed a
hundred cargo ships.  Because of the need for haste, the Federation
workers cleaning out the office of one Professor Scott Bundus
Kennedy, the late Federation astro-physicist of recent renown,
quickly placed a set of hereto unnoticed scientific log tapes
marked "The Gravity Equations:  Large Scale Application" into a
plain brown packing crate marked X1002-23.  That crate joined
numerous others for storage on Starbase 35, mainly a permanent
warehouse facility.
 
 
     On a hot blistering planet, the war room was just now under
the shade of a sister planet known as Remus.  The group of Romulan
heads of state assembled inside were solemn, a quiet rage burning
inside each one.  The Praetor-to-be had not returned from his
mission to determine whether it was possible to negotiate with the
Earthmen.  They knew he had been destroyed.  The newly appointed
Praetor vowed never to make the same mistake again.  The Romulan
Empire would come together within itself and rebuild, and prepare
until it was the stronger.  Then there would be war with both the
Federation and Klingons.  Then they would have their revenge for a
hundred years of Earth treachery.
 
 
     In a great hall of assembly on an oblate blue marble, the
Federation council was rejoicing over Klingon's full acceptance
into the Federation.  Great circumstance was made over the official
signing of the treaty by the Federation President Wilkons and the
Supreme Commander of the Klingon Empire, Kaarg.  Two-thirds of the
known galaxy would now have peace.  In orbit above Earth, the
flagship of the Federation, the U.S.S. Enterprise welcomed its new
Captain.  No crew-person from the original remained on board to
greet her.
 
 
                            END   


